Hot to talk to anyone: Sticky eyes also means intelligent eyes

Hot to talk to anyone: Epoxy Eyes technique suggests you concentrate on the listener – your target – rather than the speaker. This slightly disorients Target and he or she silently asks, ‘Why is this person looking at me instead of the speaker?’

Hot to talk to anyone: Visualize a circus iron-jaw bit hanging from the frame of every door you walk through. Take a bite and, with it firmly between your teeth, let it swoop you to the peak of the big top. When you Hang by Your Teeth, every muscle is stretched into perfect posture position. You are now ready to float into the room to captivate the crowd or close the sale (or maybe just settle for looking like the most important Somebody in the room).

Hot to talk to anyone: They pay close attention to your instinctive body reactions. They watch to see how fully you are facing them and just how far forward or back you’re leaning while answering their questions. They check out your hands. Are they softly open, palms up, signifying acceptance of the ideas they’re expressing? Or are you making a slight fist, knuckles out, signalling rejection? They scrutinize your face for the split seconds you break eye contact when discussing relevant subjects like your feelings on big awards for damages, or the death penalty.

Hot to talk to anyone: They pay close attention to your instinctive body reactions. They watch to see how fully you are facing them and just how far forward or back you’re leaning while answering their questions. They check out your hands. Are they softly open, palms up, signifying acceptance of the ideas they’re expressing? Or are you making a slight fist, knuckles out, signalling rejection? They scrutinize your face for the split seconds you break eye contact when discussing relevant subjects like your feelings on big awards for damages, or the death penalty.

Hot to talk to anyone: The secret to making people like you is showing how much you like them!

Hot to talk to anyone: When meeting someone, play a mental trick on yourself. In your mind’s eye, see him or her as an old friend, someone you had a wonderful relationship with years ago. But somehow you lost track of your friend.

Hot to talk to anyone: Hello Old Friend technique is it becomes a self-fulfilling prophesy. When you act as though you like someone, you start to really like them. An Adelphi University study called, appropriately, ‘Believing Another Likes or Dislikes You: Behaviours Making the Beliefs Come True’ proved it.

Hot to talk to anyone: What it boils down to is: Love begets love, like begets like, respect begets respect. Use the Hello Old Friend technique and you will soon have many new ‘old friends’ who wind up genuinely liking you.

Hot to talk to anyone: practicing empathy being understanding being transparent asking fact-finding questions, showing curiosity paying attention to the whole being having compassion once you know the story being yourself, authentic, genuine going deep yourself, showing vulnerability having an open mind not pushing your own personal agenda being clear and direct, no sugarcoating responding appropriately breaking down us versus them acknowledging human imperfection and human experience

Hot to talk to anyone: 1. Our careers, our companies, our relationships, and our very lives succeed or fail, gradually, then suddenly, one conversation at a time. 2. The conversation is the relationship. 3. All conversations are with myself, and sometimes they involve other people.

Deep work: Now take a look at whatever you say is stopping you from creating and living this life. Write out the list of barriers, obstacles, or unfinished things that surface in your awareness. Make a note of everything you say is in the way, or everything you say has to be done first before you go about living your dream life.

Deep Work: Professional activities performed in a state of distraction-free concentration that push your cognitive capabilities to their limit. These efforts create new value, improve your skill, and are hard to replicate.

Deep Work: CEO Bill Gates famously conducted “Think Weeks” twice a year, during which he would isolate himself (often in a lakeside cottage) to do nothing but read and think big thoughts.

Deep Work: A newfound devotee of deep work, he rented an apartment across the street from his office, allowing him to show up early in the morning before anyone else arrived and work without distraction. “On good days, I can get in four hours of focus before the first meeting,”

The Deep Work Hypothesis: The ability to perform deep work is becoming increasingly rare at exactly the same time it is becoming increasingly valuable in our economy. As a consequence, the few who cultivate this skill, and then make it the core of their working life, will thrive.

Deep Work: Why have Silver, Hansson, and Doerr done so well? There are two types of answers to this question. The first are micro in scope and focus on the personality traits and tactics that helped drive this trio’s rise. The second type of answers are more macro in that they focus less on the individuals and more on the type of work they represent.

Deep Work: In this new economy, three groups will have a particular advantage: those who can work well and creatively with intelligent machines, those who are the best at what they do, and those with access to capital.

Deep Work: Two Core Abilities for Thriving in the New Economy The ability to quickly master hard things. The ability to produce at an elite level, in terms of both quality and speed.
follows: (1) your attention is focused tightly on a specific skill you’re trying to improve or an idea you’re trying to master; (2) you receive feedback so you can correct your approach to keep your attention exactly where it’s most productive.

Deep Work: This new science of performance argues that you get better at a skill as you develop more myelin around the relevant neurons, allowing the corresponding circuit to fire more effortlessly and effectively. To be great at something is to be well myelinated. 

Hooked: 1. Trigger A trigger is the actuator of behavior—the spark plug in the engine.Triggers come in two types: external and internal.8 Habit-forming products start by alerting users with external triggers like an e-mail, a Web site link, or the app icon on a phone. 

Hooked: 2. Action Following the trigger comes the action: the behavior done in anticipation of a reward. 

Hooked: 3. Variable Reward What distinguishes the Hooked Model from a plain vanilla feedback loop is the Hook’s ability to create a craving. Feedback loops are all around us, but predictable ones don’t create desire.  

Hooked: Although dopamine is often wrongly categorized as making us feel good, introducing variability does create a focused state, which suppresses the areas of the brain associated with judgment and reason while activating the parts associated with wanting and desire.

How to Talk to Anyone: The way you look and the way you move is more than 80 per cent of someone’s first impression of you. Not one word need be spoken.

How to Talk to Anyone: ‘The study went on to say a big, warm smile is an asset. But only when it comes a little slower, because then it has more credibility.’ From that moment on, Missy explained, she gave clients and business associates her big smile. However, she trained her lips to erupt more slowly. Thus her smile appeared more sincere and personalized for the recipient.

How to Talk to Anyone: Don’t flash an immediate smile when you greet someone, as though anyone who walked into your line of sight would be the beneficiary. Instead, look at the other person’s face for a second. Pause. Soak in their persona. Then let a big, warm, responsive smile flood over your face and overflow into your eyes.

How to Talk to Anyone: Sticky eyes also means intelligent eyes There is yet another argument for intense eye contact. In addition to awakening feelings of respect and affection, maintaining strong eye contact gives you the impression of being an intelligent and abstract thinker.

How to Talk to Anyone: and kept his eyes on the waiter’s for an extra second before looking down again at the menu to choose the main dish.

How to Talk to Anyone: Sometimes using full Epoxy Eyes is too potent, so here is a gentler, yet effective, form: Watch the speaker but let your glance bounce to your target each time the speaker finishes a point. This way Mr or Ms Target still feels you are intrigued

How to Talk to Anyone: Hang by your teeth Visualize a circus iron-jaw bit hanging from the frame of every door you walk through. Take a bite and, with it firmly between your teeth, let it swoop you to the peak of the big top. When you Hang by Your Teeth, every muscle is stretched into perfect posture position. You are now ready to float into the room

How to Talk to Anyone: Pivoting 100 per cent toward New Person shouts ‘I think you are very, very special.’

How to Talk to Anyone: lay a mental trick on yourself. In your mind’s eye, see him or her as an old friend, someone you had a wonderful relationship with years ago. But somehow you lost track of your friend.

How to Talk to Anyone: When they’re using Hello Old Friend, the room comes alive. The atmosphere is charged with good feeling. The air sparkles with happier, high-energy people. They are standing closer, laughing more sincerely, and reaching out to one another.

How to Talk to Anyone: hen you act as though you like someone, you start to really like them.

How to Talk to Anyone: Limit the fidget Whenever your conversation really counts, let your nose itch, your ear tingle, or your foot prickle. Do not fidget, twitch, wiggle, squirm, or scratch. And above all, keep your paws away from your face. Hand motions near your face and all fidgeting can give your listener the gut feeling you’re fibbing.

How to Talk to Anyone: talking, keep your eyes on your listeners and watch how they’re responding to what you’re saying. Don’t miss a trick. Are they smiling? Are they nodding? Are their palms up? They like what they’re hearing. Are they frowning? Are they looking away? Are their knuckles clenched? Maybe they don’t. Are they rubbing their necks? Are they stepping back? Are their feet pointing toward the door? Maybe they want to get away.

How to Talk to Anyone: When they think you’re a pain in the neck they rub theirs. When they feel superior to you, they steeple their hands.

How to Talk to Anyone: Make it a habit to get on a dual track while talking. Express yourself, but keep a keen eye on how your listener is reacting to what you’re saying. Then plan your moves accordingly.

How to Talk to Anyone: Sports psychologists tell us visualization is not just for top-level competitive athletes. Studies show mental rehearsal helps weekend athletes sharpen their golf, their tennis, their running, whatever their favourite activity. Experts agree if you see the pictures, hear the sounds, and feel the movements of your body in your mind before you do the activity, the effect is powerful.

How to Talk to Anyone: Visualization works best when you feel totally relaxed. Only when you have a calm state of mind can you get clear, vivid images. Do your visualization in the quiet of your home or car before leaving for the party, the convention, or the big-deal meeting. See it all in your mind’s eye ahead of time.

How to Talk to Anyone: Hang by Your Teeth posture, shaking hands, smiling the Flooding Smile, and making Sticky Eyes. Hear yourself chatting comfortably with everyone. Feel the pleasure of knowing you are in peak form and everyone is gravitating toward you. Visualize yourself a Super Somebody. Then it all happens automatically.

How to Talk to Anyone: But with Flooding Smile, Sticky Eyes, Epoxy Eyes, Hang by Your Teeth, Big-Baby Pivot, Hello Old Friend, Limit the Fidget, Hans’s Horse Sense and Watch the Scene Before You Make the Scene, you’ll be right

How to Talk to Anyone: Top Communicators pick up on their listener’s tone of voice and duplicate it.

How to Talk to Anyone: it’s not all what you say, it’s how you say it.

How to Talk to Anyone: No matter how prosaic the text, an empathetic mood, a positive demeanour, and passionate delivery make you sound exciting.

How to Talk to Anyone: Always wear a Whatzit Whenever you go to a gathering, wear or carry something unusual to give people who find you the delightful stranger across the crowded room an excuse to approach. ‘Excuse me, I couldn’t help but notice your … what IS that?’

How to Talk to Anyone: Whoozat? Whoozat is the most effective, least used (by nonpoliticians) meeting-people device ever contrived. Simply ask the party giver to make the introduction, or pump for a few facts that you can immediately turn into icebreakers.

How to Talk to Anyone: Eavesdrop in No Whatzit? No host for Whoozat? No problem! Just sidle up behind the swarm of folks you want to infiltrate and open your ears. Wait for any flimsy excuse and jump in with ‘Excuse me, I couldn’t help but overhear …’

How to Talk to Anyone: Each time, through a series of nods and comforting grunts like ‘um hum,’ or ‘umm,’ you let your Conversation Partner know the ball has landed in your court. It’s your ‘I got it’ signal. Such is the rhythm of conversation.

How to Talk to Anyone: Never be left speechless again. Like a parrot, simply repeat the last few words your Conversation Partner says. That puts the ball right back in his or her court, and then all you need to do is listen.

How to Talk to Anyone: The sweetest sound your Conversation Partner can hear from your lips when you’re talking with a group of people is ‘Tell them about the time you …’ Whenever you’re at a meeting or party with someone important to you, think of some stories he or she told you.

How to Talk to Anyone: The latest news … don’t leave home without it The last move to make before leaving for the party

How to Talk to Anyone: You simply practise the following eight words. All together now: ‘How … do … you … spend … most … of … your … time?’ ‘How do you spend most of your time?’ is the gracious way to let a cadaver cutter, a tax collector, or a capsized employee off the hook.

How to Talk to Anyone: You don’t need to be quite so melodramatic in your self-image, but at least punch up your life to sound interesting and dedicated.

How to Talk to Anyone: Before responding to ‘What do you do?’ ask yourself, ‘What possible interest could this person have in my answer? Could he refer business to me? Buy from me? Hire me? Marry my sister? Become my buddy?’

How to Talk to Anyone: For example, if you turn to the word smart, you’ll find dozens of synonyms. There are colourful, rich words like ingenious, resourceful, adroit, shrewd, and many more. Run down the list and say each out loud. Which ones fit your personality? Which ones seem right for you? Try each

How to Talk to Anyone: During my seminars, to help men avoid Gary’s mistake, I ask every male to think of a synonym for pretty, or great. Then I bring up one woman and several men. I ask each to pretend he is her husband. She has just come down the stairs ready to go out to dinner. I ask each to take her hand and deliver his compliment. ‘Darla,’ one says, ‘you look elegant.’

How to Talk to Anyone: Don’t tell the hosts it was wonderful. Everybody says that. Tell them it was a splendid party, a superb party, an extraordinary party. Hug the hosts and tell them you had a magnificent time, a remarkable time, a glorious time. The first few times you say a word like glorious, it may not roll comfortably off your tongue. Yet you have no trouble with the word wonderful.

How to Talk to Anyone: Whenever someone mentions a common interest or experience, instead of jumping in with a breathless, ‘Hey, me, too! I do that, too’ or ‘I know all about that,’ let your Conversation Partner enjoy talking about it. Let her go on about the country club before you tell her you’re a member, too.

How to Talk to Anyone: Here’s the technique I call Kill the Quick ‘Me, Too!’ Whenever people mention an activity or interest you share, let them enjoy discussing their passion. Then, when the time is right, casually mention you share their interest.

How to Talk to Anyone: Suppose, instead, you had said to her, ‘Jill, YOU will really love this new Indian restaurant. Will you join me there this evening for dinner?’ Phrasing it that way, you’ve already subliminally answered Jill’s questions and she’s more apt to give you a quick yes.

How to Talk to Anyone: Comm-YOU-nicate when you want a favour Putting YOU first gets a much better response, especially when you’re asking a favour, because it pushes the asker’s pride button. Suppose you want to take a long weekend. You decide to ask your boss if you can take Friday off. Which request do you think he or she is going to react to more positively? ‘Can I take Friday off, Boss?’ Or this one: ‘Boss, can YOU do without me Friday?’

How to Talk to Anyone: Comm-YOU-nicate your compliments Comm-YOU-nication also enriches your social conversation. Gentlemen, say a lady likes your suit. Which woman gives you warmer feelings? The woman who says, ‘I like your suit.’ Or the one who says, ‘YOU look great in that suit.’ Big Players who make business presentations use Comm-YOU-nication to excellent advantage. Suppose you’re giving a talk and a participant asks a question. He likes to hear you say, ‘That’s a good question.’ However, consider how much better he feels when you tell him, ‘YOU’VE asked a good question.’

How to Talk to Anyone: Why did this man’s stock shoot high in my ticker one minute and plummet the next? Because his smile, although charming, reflected no special reaction to me. Obviously, he gave the same smile to everybody and, by that, it lost all its specialness. If Strobe Man had given each of us a slightly different smile, he would have appeared sensitive and insightful. (Of course, if his smile had been just a tad bigger for me than for the others, I couldn’t have waited for the formalities to be over to seek him out in the crowded ballroom.)

How to Talk to Anyone: When meeting groups of people, grace each with a distinct smile. Let your smiles grow out of the beauty Big Players find in each new face. If one person in a group is more important to you than the others, reserve an especially big, flooding smile just for him or her.

How to Talk to Anyone: ten-foot pole Be on guard. Don’t use any clichés when chatting with Big Winners. Don’t even touch one with a ten-foot pole.

How to Talk to Anyone: The difference is, these jawsmiths use it all. They use their hands, they use their bodies, and they use specific gestures with heavy impact. They think about the space they’re talking in. They employ many different tones of voice, they invoke various expressions, they vary the speed with which they speak … and they make effective use of silence.

How to Talk to Anyone: He’d describe being nervous about losing his job as ‘I felt like an elephant dangling over a cliff with his tail tied to a daisy.’ Instead of saying he looked at a pretty woman, he’d say, ‘My eyeballs popped out and dangled by the optic nerve.’

How to Talk to Anyone: Many speakers use author’s and speaker’s agent Lilly Walters’s face-saver lines from her book, What to Say When You’re Dying on the Platform.16 If you tell a joke and no one laughs, try ‘That joke was designed to get a silent laugh – and it worked.’ If the microphone lets out an agonizing howl, look at it and say, ‘I don’t understand. I brushed my teeth this morning.’ If someone asks you a question you don’t want to answer, ‘Could you save that question until I’m finished – and well on my way home?’ All pros think of holes they might fall into and then memorize great escape lines. You can do the same. Look through books of similes to enrich your day-to-day conversations. Instead of happy as a lark try ‘happy as a lottery winner’ or ‘happy as a baby with its first ice cream cone.’

How to Talk to Anyone: always in mind. Before throwing out any news, keep your receiver in mind. Then deliver it with a smile, a sigh, or a sob. Not according to how you feel about the news, but how the receiver will take it.

How to Talk to Anyone: The broken record Whenever someone persists in questioning you on an unwelcome subject, simply repeat your original response. Use precisely the same words in precisely the same tone of voice. Hearing it again usually quiets them down. If your rude interrogator hangs on like a leech, your next repetition never fails to flick them off.

How to Talk to Anyone: Very simply, never let the word thank you stand naked and alone. Always make it thank you for something. People use the bare exposed thank you so often that people don’t even hear it anymore.

How to Talk to Anyone: Whenever the occasion warrants more than an unconscious acknowledgment, dress up your thank you with the reason: Thank you for coming. Thank you for being so understanding. Thank you for waiting. Thank you for being such a good customer.

How to Talk to Anyone: Scramble Therapy is, quite simply, scrambling up your life and participating in an activity you’d never think of indulging in. Just one out of every four weekends, do something totally out of your pattern. Do you usually play tennis on weekends? This weekend, go hiking. Do you usually go hiking? This weekend, take a tennis lesson.

How to Talk to Anyone: Go to a stamp exhibition. Go to a chess lecture. Go ballooning. Go bird watching. Go to a pool hall. Go kayaking. Go fly a kite! Why? Because it will give you conversational fodder for the rest of your life.

How to Talk to Anyone: Scramble therapy Once a month, scramble your life. Do something you’d never dream of doing. Participate in a sport, go to an exhibition, hear a lecture on something totally out of your experience. You get 80 per cent of the right lingo and insider questions from

How to Talk to Anyone: It’s all in the opening question. For example, suppose I’m introduced to someone and the first words out of her mouth are, ‘Oh, you’re a writer. When are you going to write the great American novel?’ Yikes, I know I’m talking with someone who is unfamiliar with my world. 
If, however, my new acquaintance says, ‘Oh you’re a writer. Do you write fiction or nonfiction?’ Bingo! Now I know I’m with a person who knows about my world. Why? Because that is the first question all writers ask each other. I enjoy talking to this inquisitor because I presume she has more insights into the writing world.

How to Talk to Anyone: When an astronaut meets another astronaut, he asks, ‘What missions have you been on?’ (Never ‘How do you go to the bathroom up there?’) A dentist asks another dentist, ‘Are you in general practice or do you have a specialty?’

How to Talk to Anyone: Then, here’s the fun part, when you tell them you’re not connected to their field, they’re all the more impressed. ‘What a knowledgeable person!’ they say to themselves.

How to Talk to Anyone: find out what the hot issues are in their fields. Every industry has burning concerns the outside world knows little about. Ask your informant to bare the industry buzz. Then, to heat the conversation up, push those buttons.
considered ‘an act of God.’ Therefore, you lose. When knowledgeable associates buy products, the vendor is happily reduced to nothing more than a purchasing agent. For very little work, he makes a small profit and is satisfied. A little bit of knowledge goes a long way when you’re buying something. If you have insight into your real estate broker’s bottom line, he’s more apt to give you the better price. If you are facile with the insider words caterers and car salesmen use to pad their profits, if you’re

How to Talk to Anyone: However, when quizzed afterward on how much they liked each other, partners who believed they were similar liked each other a lot more than the couples who thought themselves to be dissimilar, demonstrating we have a predisposition toward people we believe are just like us. We are most comfortable giving our business and friendship to those we feel share our values and beliefs in life.

How to Talk to Anyone: Be a copycat Watch people. Look at the way they move. Small movements? Big movements? Fast? Slow? Jerky? Fluid? Old? Young? Classy? Trashy? Pretend the person you are talking to is your dance instructor. Is he a jazzy mover? Is she a balletic mover? Watch his or her body, then imitate the style of movement. That makes your Conversation Partner subliminally real comfy with you.

How to Talk to Anyone: When you want to give someone the subliminal feeling you’re just alike, use their words, not yours. Suppose you are selling a car to a young mother who tells you she is concerned about safety because she has a young toddler.

How to Talk to Anyone: You are first chatting with a lawyer who tells you her profession is often maligned. When it comes your turn to speak, say profession too. If you say job, it puts a subconscious barrier between you. Next you meet a construction worker who starts talking about his job.

How to Talk to Anyone: What are empathizers? Empathizers are simple, short, supportive statements. Unlike ‘uh huh,’ they are complete sentences such as ‘I can appreciate you decided to do that,’ or ‘That really is exciting.’ Empathizers can be one-sentence positive critiques like ‘Yes, that was the honorable thing to do’ or ‘It’s charming you felt that way.’ When you respond with complete sentences instead of the usual grunts, not only do you come across as more articulate, your listener feels that you really understand.

How to Talk to Anyone: What part of their anatomy are your associates talking though? Their eyes? Their ears? Their gut? For visual people, use visual empathizers to make them think you see the world the way they do. For auditory folks, use auditory empathizers to make them think you hear them loud and clear. For kinesthetic types, use kinesthetic empathizers to make
Technique 49: The premature we Create the sensation of intimacy with someone even if you’ve met just moments before. Scramble the signals in their psyche by skipping conversational levels one and two, and cutting right to

How to Talk to Anyone: We’re more apt to trust someone who says nice things about us when we aren’t listening than someone who flatters us to our face.

How to Talk to Anyone: Don’t directly compliment Jane. Go to her close associate Diane Doe and say, ‘You know, Jane is a very dynamic woman. She said something so brilliant in the meeting the other day. Someday she’ll be running this company.’ I place ten-to-one odds your comment will

How to Talk to Anyone: When there’s bad news. (It’s called gossip.) Instead, become a carrier of good news and kudos. Whenever you hear something complimentary about someone, fly to them with the compliment. Your fans may not posthumously stuff you and put you on display in a museum like Stumpy Joe. But everyone loves the Carrier Pigeon of kind thoughts.

How to Talk to Anyone: Rule 1: Deliver your Killer Compliment to the recipient in private. If you are standing with a group of four or five people and you praise one woman for being fit, every other woman feels like a barrel of lard. If you tell one man he has wonderful carriage, every other feels like a hunchback. You also make the blushing

How to Talk to Anyone: Rule 2: Make your Killer Compliment credible. For example, I’m tone-deaf. If I’m forced to sing even a simple song like ‘Happy Birthday,’ I sound like a sick pig. If anyone in earshot were foolish enough to tell me they liked my voice, I’d know it was hogwash. Rule 3: Confer only one Killer Compliment per half year on each recipient. Otherwise you come across as insincere, grovelling, obsequious, pandering, and a thoroughly

How to Talk to Anyone: Your colleague asks, ‘How was your vacation in Hawaii?’ You answer, ‘Oh, you remembered I went to Hawaii! It was great, thanks.’ Your boss asks, ‘Are you over your cold now?’ You answer, ‘I appreciate your concern. I feel much better now.’ Whenever someone shines a little sunshine on your life in the form of a compliment or concerned question,

How to Talk to Anyone: Ask the important people in your life what they would like engraved on their tombstone. Chisel it into your memory but don’t mention it again. Then, when the moment is right to say ‘I appreciate you’ or ‘I love you,’ fill the blanks with the very words they gave you weeks earlier.

How to Talk to Anyone: To get your personality across on the phone, you must translate your emotions into sound. In fact, you have to exaggerate the sound because studies have shown people lose 30 per cent of the energy level in their voices on the phone. Say you meet an important new

How to Talk to Anyone: punctuate your phone conversations with ‘Uh huh’ or ‘I hear you.’ So your listener knows you’re nodding in approval, verbalize ‘I see,’ ‘Oh that’s great,’ ‘No kidding,’ ‘Interesting,’ and ‘Tell me more!’ She didn’t see you hitting your head in surprise? Better say ‘What a surprise!’

How to Talk to Anyone: Saying a person’s name too often in face-to-face conversation sounds manipulative. However, on the phone the effect is dramatically different.

How to Talk to Anyone: Don’t answer the phone with an ‘I’m just sooo happy all the time’ attitude. Answer warmly, crisply, professionally. Then, after you hear who is calling, let a huge smile of happiness engulf your entire face and spill over into your voice. You make your caller feel as though your giant warm fuzzy smile is reserved for him or her.

How to Talk to Anyone: When you hear a phone in the background, stop speaking – in midsentence if necessary – and say ‘I hear your other line’ (or your dog barking, your baby crying, your spouse calling you).

How to Talk to Anyone: Biggies get there early to start hitting their marks as each arrives. VIPS frequently come early to get their business done before party regulars who ‘hate to be the first one there’ start arriving. They are never embarrassed to arrive early.

How to Talk to Anyone: Each pauses momentarily and looks around before swooping into decisive action. Movie directors love shots of THE DOORWAY where

How to Talk to Anyone: Think again, thespians. It’s cultivated. Politicians don’t just slink unnoticed into a roomful of people. Politicians make The Entrance. With one simple technique, you too can make great entrances. I call it Rubberneck the Room. Before entering, stop dramatically in the doorway and survey the scene s-l-o-w-l-y with your eyes. It is significant that, while you’re standing in the doorway, you’re not thinking, ‘Look at me.’ The reason you’re Rubbernecking the Room is not to show off. It is so you can diagnose the situation you’re walking into. Take note of the lighting, the bar, and most important, the faces. Listen to the music, the buzz of the crowd, the clinking of glasses. See who is talking to whom. While rubbernecking, you’ll also be using Be the Chooser, Not the Choosee, the next technique, which helps you select your first, second, and maybe third target. Now,

How to Talk to Anyone: ‘Hmm, any interesting strangers I should meet?’ Politicians don’t wait for others to approach them. If the party host or their campaign manager has not supplied a ‘must meet’ list, they choose their targets while Rubbernecking the Room. As their keen eyes scan the crowd, they’re asking themselves ‘Who would I most enjoy talking'

How to Talk to Anyone: When you seek people’s special qualities by exploring their faces, you will find them. If you want to walk out of any gathering with your life enhanced, spend time with people you choose, not just those who choose you. Be choosey in who you pick. But don’t wait to be the choosee.

How to Talk to Anyone: Controlled studies show that party goers are more comfortable approaching people who stand with an open body – arms uncrossed and hanging at their sides, legs slightly separated, a slight smile on their faces. Any object between you and the crowd is a subliminal cutoff – even your purse. More people approach a woman who sports a shoulder bag than one squeezing a handbag. The shoulder bag hangs behind her back, thus leaving the path to talk to her open. Give

How to Talk to Anyone: They also signify acceptance. When you are listening to a business colleague to whom you want to signal acceptance, make sure your wrists and palms are up. Even if you’re resting your head on your chin, turn your wrists forward. Whenever you are chatting with anyone, give yourself a constant hand check.

How to Talk to Anyone: Tracking Like an air-traffic controller, track the tiniest details of your Conversation Partners’ lives. Refer to them in your conversation like a major news story. It creates a powerful sense of intimacy. When you envoke the last major or minor event in anyone’s life, it confirms the deep conviction that he or she is an old-style hero around whom the world revolves. And people love you for recognizing their stardom.

How to Talk to Anyone: Right after you’ve talked to someone at a party, take out your pen. On the back of his or her business card write notes to remind you of the conversation:

How to Talk to Anyone: At that instant, I realized Big Boys and Girls see no bloopers, hear no bloopers. They never say ‘Butterfingers.’ Or ‘Whoops.’ Or even ‘Uh-oh.’ They ignore their colleagues’ boners. They simply don’t notice their comrades’ minor spills, slips, fumbles and blunders. Thus, the technique See No Bloopers, Hear No Bloopers was born.

How to Talk to Anyone: Whenever someone’s story is aborted, let the interruption play itself out. Give everyone time to dote on the little darling, give their dinner order, or pick up the jagged pieces of china. Then, when the group reassembles, simply say to the person who suffered story-interruptus, ‘Now please get back to your story.’ Or better yet, remember where they were and then ask, ‘So what happened after the … (and fill in the last few

How to Talk to Anyone: (and WIIFY) Whenever you suggest a meeting or ask a favour, divulge the respective benefits. Reveal what’s in it for you and what’s in it for the other person – even if it’s zip. If any hidden agenda comes up later, you get labelled a sly fox.

How to Talk to Anyone: Whenever you make a mistake, make sure your victim benefits. It’s not enough to correct your error. Ask yourself, ‘What could I do for this suffering soul so he or she will be delighted I made the flub?’ Then do it, fast! In that way, your goof will become your gain.

How to Talk to Anyone: Dear (name of supervisor), I know how important customer service is to an organization such as yours. This letter is to commend (name of employee). He/She is an example of an (employee title) who gives exceptional customer service. (Name of store or business) continues to have my business thanks in great part to the service given by (name of employee). Gratefully, (signature)

How to Talk to Anyone: Be the first to applaud or publicly commend the man or woman you agree with.

Outliers: They had to appreciate the idea that the values of the world we inhabit and the people we surround ourselves with have a profound effect on who we are. – Outliers

The Sleep Solution: One last thing about the glymphatic system: it seems to work better when you sleep on your side. Stony Brook University researchers Hedok Lee and colleagues studying rodents found that the glymphatic system worked more efficiently when the rodent was placed on its side. One behavioral change you can implement right now that could reduce your risk of developing Alzheimer's disease is to simply sleep on your side.

The Sleep Solution: Their sleep and brain biochemistry were measured. Did the rats sleep? Absolutely. Did they both sleep the same? No. The rats in the dirty cage showed more signs of hyperarousal and did not sleep as well as the rats in the clean cage. 

Deep work:  As of now, spend a minimum of one hour a day doing whatever you are waiting to do

Deep work:  Spend at least one hour a day doing whatever you simply love to do—what you deeply feel you need to do, in your heart—in spite of the daily duties that seem to constrain you.

Deep work:  Most postponements are excuses for a lack of creative discipline.

Deep work:  Every moment waited is a moment wasted, and each wasted moment degrades your clarity of purpose.

Deep work:  A man must love his father and yet be free of his father's expectations and criticisms in order to be a free man.

Deep work:  He shouldn't pretend he is more enlightened than he is—nor should he stop short of his actual edge. The more a man is playing his real edge, the more valuable he is as good company for other men, the more he can be trusted to be authentic and fully present. Where a man's edge is located is less important than whether he is actually living his edge in truth, rather than being lazy or deluded.

Deep work:  If you were absolutely fearless, would you be earning a living in exactly the same way as you are now? Your edge is where you stop short, or where you compromise your fullest gift, and, instead, cater to your fears.

Deep work:  Honor your edge. Honor your choices. Be honest with yourself about them. Be honest with your friends about them. A fearful man who knows he is fearful is far more trustable than a fearful man who isn't aware of his fear. And a fearful man who still leans into his fear, living at his edge and putting his gift out from there, is more trustworthy and more inspirational than a fearful man who hangs back in the comfort zone, unwilling to even experience his fear on a day to day level.

Deep work:  Spend time with people who inspire you and reflect the source to you. Meditate, contemplate, or pray daily so that you steep yourself in the source.

Deep work:  Even if you find yourself in some trivial moment, watching TV or cleaning up a mess in the kitchen, feel the truth of who you are. Feel the boundless cognizance in which each instant seems and vanishes.

Deep work:  Always trust your own wisdom

Deep work: Good friends should not tolerate mediocrity in one another.

Deep work: You may wish to go on a retreat in a remote area and be by yourself. Whatever it is you decide to do, consciously keep yourself open and available to receiving a vision of what is next. It will come.

Deep work: And then, one day, a few years later, it is finished. This layer has dissolved. And the cycle begins again, and again, until you have penetrated all the layers into your deepest purpose. Then, you act fully, until that purpose, too, is dissolved in the bliss of the love that you are.

Ikigai: Nurturing friendships, eating light, getting enough rest, and doing regular, moderate exercise are all part of the equation of good health, but at the heart of the joie de vivre that inspires these centenarians to keep celebrating birthdays and cherishing each new day is their ikigai.

Ikigai: According to scientists who have studied the five Blue Zones, the keys to longevity are diet, exercise, finding a purpose in life (an ikigai), and forming strong social ties ”that is, having a broad circle of friends and good family relations. Members of these communities manage their time well in order to reduce stress, consume little meat or processed foods, and drink alcohol in moderation.

Ikigai: Fill your belly to 80 percent.  Ancient wisdom advises against eating until we are full. This is why Okinawans stop eating when they feel their stomachs reach 80 percent of their capacity, rather than overeating and wearing down their bodies with long digestive processes that accelerate cellular oxidation.  

Ikigai: The effects of mental training have been scientifically demonstrated. According to Collins Hemingway and Shlomo Breznitz in their book Maximum Brainpower: Challenging the Brain for Health and Wisdom,

Ikigai: One way to reach a state of mindfulness is through meditation, which helps filter the information that reaches us from the outside world. It can also be achieved through breathing exercises, yoga, and body scans.

Ikigai: we just have to add a few ingredients to our everyday habits: Walk to work, or just go on a walk for at least twenty minutes each day. Use your feet instead of an elevator or escalator. This is good for your posture, your muscles, and your respiratory system, among other things. Participate in social or leisure activities so that you don't spend too much time in front of the television. Replace your junk food with fruit and you'll have less of an urge to snack, and more nutrients in your system.

Ikigai: Get the right amount of sleep. Seven to nine hours is good, but any more than that makes us lethargic. Play with children or pets, or join a sports team. This not only strengthens the body but also stimulates the mind and boosts self-esteem. Be conscious of your daily routine in order to detect harmful habits and replace them with more positive ones.

Ikigai: Science has shown that sleep is a key antiaging tool, because when we sleep we generate melatonin, a hormone that occurs naturally in our bodies. The pineal gland produces it from the neurotransmitter serotonin according to our diurnal and nocturnal rhythms, and it plays a role in our sleep and waking cycles. A powerful antioxidant, melatonin helps us live longer, and also offers the following benefits: It strengthens the immune system. It contains an element that protects against cancer. It promotes the natural production of insulin. It slows the onset of Alzheimer's disease. It helps prevent osteoporosis and fight heart disease.

Ikigai: that the people who live the longest have two dispositional traits in common: a positive attitude and a high degree of emotional awareness. In other words, those who face challenges with a positive outlook and are able to manage their emotions are already well on their way toward longevity.

Ikigai: A stoic attitude ”serenity in the face of a setback ”can also help keep you young, as it lowers anxiety and stress levels and stabilizes behavior. This can be seen in the greater life expectancies of certain cultures with unhurried, deliberate lifestyles.

Ikigai: Logotherapy pushes patients to consciously discover their life's purpose in order to confront their neuroses. Their quest to fulfill their destiny then motivates them to press forward, breaking the mental chains of the past and overcoming whatever obstacles they encounter along the way.

Ikigai: Nietzsches famous aphorisms: He who has a why to live for can bear with almost any how.

Ikigai: We dont create the meaning of our life, as Sartre claimed we discover it. We each have a unique reason for being, which can be adjusted or transformed many times over the years. Just as worry often brings about precisely the thing that was feared, excessive attention to a desire (or hyper-intention) can keep that desire from being fulfilled. Humor can help break negative cycles and reduce anxiety. We all have the capacity to do noble or terrible things. The side of the equation we end up on depends on our decisions, not on the condition in which we find ourselves. 

Ikigai: The basic principles of Morita therapy Accept your feelings. If we have obsessive thoughts, we should not try to control them or get rid of them. If we do, they become more intense.

Ikigai: We should focus instead on the present moment, and if we are suffering, on accepting that suffering. Above all, we should avoid intellectualizing the situation.

Ikigai: We are what we repeatedly do. Excellence, then, is not an act but a habit. Aristotle

Ikigai: We spend an afternoon with a book and forget about the world going by until we notice the sunset and realize we havent eaten dinner. We go surfing and dont realize how many hours we have spent in the water until the next day, when our muscles ache.

Ikigai: The Seven Conditions for Achieving Flow According to researcher Owen Schaffer of DePaul University, the requirements for achieving flow are: Knowing what to do Knowing how to do it Knowing how well you are doing Knowing where to go (where navigation is involved) Perceiving significant challenges Perceiving significant skills Being free from distractions

Ikigai: Strategy 1: Choose a difficult task (but not too difficult!), Strategy 2: Have a clear, concrete objective. We should ask ourselves questions such as: What is my objective for todays session in the studio? How many words am I going to write today for the article coming out next month? What is my teams mission?

Ikigai: As soon as you take these first small steps, your anxiety will disappear and you will achieve a pleasant flow in the activity youre doing. Getting back to Albert Einstein, happy man is too satisfied with the present to dwell on the future.

Ikigai: Strategy 3: Concentrate on a single task This is perhaps one of the greatest obstacles we face today, with so much technology and so many distractions. Were listening to a video on YouTube while writing an e-mail, when suddenly a chat prompt pops up and we answer it.

Ikigai: Concentrating on one thing at a time may be the single most important factor in achieving flow. According to Csikszentmihalyi, in order to focus on a task we need: To be in a distraction-free environment To have control over what we are doing at every moment Technology is great,

Ikigai: Other studies indicate that working on several things at once lowers our productivity by at least 60 percent and our IQ by more than ten points.

Ikigai: Dont look at any kind of screen for the first hour youre awake and the last hour before you go to sleep. Turn off your phone before you achieve flow. There is nothing more important than the task you have chosen to do during this time. Designate one day of the week, perhaps a Saturday or Sunday, a day of technological fasting, making exceptions only for e-readers (without Wi-Fi) or MP3 players. Go to a cafe that doesnt have Wi-Fi. Read and respond to e-mail only once or twice per day. Define those times clearly and stick to them.

Ikigai:  Try the Pomodoro Technique and commit to working on a single task as long as its running. The Pomodoro Technique recommends 25 minutes of work and 5 minutes of rest for each cycle, but you can also do 50 minutes of work and 10 minutes of rest. Find the pace thats best for you; the most important thing is to be disciplined in completing each cycle.

Ikigai: Start your work session with a ritual you enjoy and end it with a reward. Train your mind to return to the present when you find yourself getting distracted. Practice mindfulness or another form of meditation, go for a walk or a swim whatever will help you get centered again. Work in a space where you will not be distracted. If you cant do this at home, go to a library, a cafe. keep looking until you find the right place. 

Ikigai: Divide each activity into groups of related tasks, and assign each group its own place and time. For example, if youre writing a magazine article, you could do research and take notes at home in the morning, write in the library in the afternoon, and edit on the couch at night.

Ikigai: When he didnt have something important to do or needed to rest his mind, Feynman dedicated himself to microflowing” say, painting the office walls.

Ikigai: If we want to get better at reaching a state of flow, meditation is an excellent antidote to our smartphones

Ikigai: Meditation generates alpha and theta brain waves. For those experienced in meditation, these waves appear right away, while it might take a half hour for a beginner to experience them. These relaxing brain waves are the ones that are activated right before we fall asleep, as we lie in the sun, or right after taking a hot bath.

Ikigai: yourself: Rituals over goals. The happiest people are not the ones who achieve the most. They are the ones who spend more time than others in a state of flow.

Ikigai: After reading this chapter you should have a better idea of which activities in your life make you enter flow. Write all of them on a piece of paper, then ask yourself these questions: What do the activities that drive you to flow have in common? Why do those activities drive you to flow? For example, are all the activities you most like doing ones that you practice alone or with other people? Do you flow more when doing things that require you to move your body or just to think?

Ikigai: Flow is mysterious. It is like a muscle: the more you train it, the more you will flow, and the closer you will be to your ikigai.

Ikigai: Stay curious about everything, you will automatically be in your time

Ikigai: Food wont help you live longer she says, bringing to her lips a bite of the diminutive confection that followed our meal. The secret is smiling and having a good time

Ikigai: Celebrate each day, together Celebrations seem to be an essential part of life in Ogimi.

Ikigai: Dont worry the secret to a long life is not to worry. And to keep your heart young dont let it grow old. Open your heart to people with a nice smile on your face. If you smile and open your heart, your grandchildren and everyone else will want to see you.

Ikigai: The best way to avoid anxiety is to go out in the street and say hello to people. I do it every day. I go out there and say, Hello and See you later Then I go home and care for my vegetable garden. In the afternoon, I spend time with friends

Ikigai: To live a long time you need to do three things: exercise to stay healthy, eat well, and spend time with people

Ikigai: Nurture your friendships every day Getting together with my friends is my most important ikigai. We all get together here and talk its very important. I always know Ill see them all here tomorrow, and thats one of my favorite things in life

Ikigai: Live an unhurried life My secret to a long life is always saying to myself, Slow down and Relax. You live much longer if youre not in a hurry

Ikigai: Doing many different things every day. Always staying busy, but doing one thing at a time, without getting overwhelmed

Ikigai: The secret to long life is going to bed early, waking up early, and going for a walk. Living peacefully and enjoying the little things. Getting along with your friends. Spring, summer, fall, winter enjoying each season, happily

Ikigai: Be optimistic Every day I say to myself, Today will be full of health and energy. Live it to the fullest

Ikigai: Keys to the Ogimi Lifestyle One hundred percent of the people we interviewed keep a vegetable garden, and most of them also have fields of tea, mangoes, shikuwasa, and so on.

Ikigai: All belong to some form of neighborhood association, where they feel cared for as though by family.

Ikigai: They celebrate all the time, even little things. Music, song, and dance are essential parts of daily life. They have an important purpose in life, or several. They have an ikigai, but they don't take it too seriously. They are relaxed and enjoy all that they do.

Ikigai: They are very proud of their traditions and local culture.

Ikigai: They are passionate about everything they do, however insignificant it might seem.

Ikigai: They are always busy, but they occupy themselves with tasks that allow them to relax. We didnt see a single old grandpa sitting on a bench doing nothing. They're always coming and going ”to sing karaoke, visit with neighbors, or play a game of gateball.

Ikigai: Locals eat a wide variety of foods, especially vegetables. Variety seems to be key. A study of Okinawas centenarians showed that they ate 206 different foods, including spices, on a regular basis. They ate an average of eighteen different foods each day, a striking contrast to the nutritional poverty of our fast-food culture.

Ikigai: eat at least five servings of fruits and vegetables every day. At least seven types of fruits and vegetables are consumed by Okinawans on a daily basis. The easiest way to check if there is enough variety on your table is to make sure you  re eating the rainbow.  A table featuring red peppers, carrots, spinach, cauliflower, and eggplant, for example

Ikigai: They rarely eat sugar, and if they do, its cane sugar. We drove through several sugarcane fields every morning on our way to Ogimi, and even drank a glass of cane juice at Nakijin Castle. Beside the stall selling the juice was a sign describing the anticarcinogenic benefits of sugarcane.

Ikigai: They also eat practically half as much salt as the rest of Japan: 7 grams per day, compared to an average of 12.

Ikigai: White tea, with its high concentration of polyphenols, may be even more effective against aging. In fact, it is considered to be the natural product with the greatest antioxidant power in the world to the extent that one cup of white tea might pack the same punch as about a dozen glasses of orange juice. In summary: Drinking green or white tea every day can help us reduce the free radicals in our bodies, keeping us young longer.

Ikigai: The Antioxidant Canon, for Westerners In 2010 the UKs Daily Mirror published a list of foods recommended by experts to combat aging. Among these foods readily available in the West are: Vegetables such as broccoli and chard, for their high concentration of water, minerals, and fiber Oily fish such as salmon, mackerel, tuna, and sardines, for all the antioxidants in their fat Fruits such as citrus, strawberries, and apricots; they are an excellent source of vitamins and help eliminate toxins from the body Berries such as blueberries and goji berries; they are rich in phytochemical antioxidants Dried fruits, which contain vitamins and antioxidants, and give you energy Grains such as oats and wheat, which give you energy and contain minerals Olive oil, for its antioxidant effects that show in your skin

Ikigai: Foods that should be eliminated are refined sugar and grains, processed baked goods, and prepared foods, along with cows milk and all its derivatives. Following this diet will help you feel younger and slow the process of premature aging.

Ikigai: As Easy as Getting out of Your Chair Metabolism slows down 90 percent after 30 minutes of sitting. The enzymes that move the bad fat from your arteries to your muscles, where it can get burned off, slow down. And after two hours, good cholesterol drops 20 percent. Just getting up for five minutes is going to get things going again. These things are so simple they're almost stupid,  says Gavin Bradley in a 2015 interview with Brigid Schulte for the Washington Post.2 Bradley is one of the preeminent experts on the subject, and the director of an international organization dedicated to building awareness of how detrimental sitting all the time can be to our health.

Ikigai:  It might seem basic, but in our modern lives, we can spend days without raising our arms above our ears. Think about it: our arms are down when using computers, when using smartphones, when reading books.

Ikigai: Sooner or later, we all have to face difficult moments, and the way we do this can make a huge difference to our quality of life. Proper training for our mind, body, and emotional resilience is essential for confronting life's ups and downs.

Ikigai: Resilient people know how to stay focused on their objectives, on what matters, without giving in to discouragement. Their flexibility is the source of their strength: They know how to adapt to change and to reversals of fortune. They concentrate on the things they can control and don't worry about those they can't.

Ikigai: Stoicism, which centers on the idea that there is nothing wrong with enjoying life's pleasures as long as they do not take control of your life as you enjoy them. You have to be prepared for those pleasures to disappear.

Ikigai: The Stoics believed that these kinds of desires and ambitions are not worth pursuing. The objective of the virtuous person is to reach a state of tranquility (apatheia): the absence of negative feelings such as anxiety, fear, shame, vanity, and anger, and the presence of positive feelings such as happiness, love, serenity, and gratitude. In order to keep their minds virtuous, the Stoics practiced something like negative visualization: They imagined the worst thing that could happen in order to be prepared if certain privileges and pleasures were taken from them. To practice negative visualization, we have to reflect on negative events, but without worrying about them.

Ikigai: Seneca, one of the richest men in ancient Rome, lived a life of luxury but was, nonetheless, an active Stoic. He recommended practicing negative visualization every night before falling asleep. In fact, he not only imagined these negative situations, he actually put them into practice for example, by living for a week without servants, or the food and drink he was used to as a wealthy man. As a result, he was able to answer the question What's the worst thing that could happen?

Ikigai: another central tenet of Stoicism is knowing what we can control and what we can't, as we see in the Serenity Prayer. Worrying about things that are beyond our control accomplishes nothing. We should have a clear sense of what we can change and what we can't, which in turn will allow us to resist giving in to negative emotions

Ikigai: In the words of Epictetus, It's not what happens to you, but how you react that matters

Ikigai: Both Buddhism and Stoicism remind us that the present is all that exists, and it is the only thing we can control. Instead of worrying about the past or the future, we should appreciate things just as they are in the moment, in the now.

Ikigai: In addition to living in the here and now, the Stoics recommend reflecting on the impermanence of the things around us. The Roman emperor Marcus Aurelius said that the things we love are like the leaves of a tree: They can fall at any moment with a gust of wind. He also said that changes in the world around us are not accidental but rather form part of the essence of the universe

Ikigai: We should never forget that everything we have and all the people we love will disappear at some point. This is something we should keep in mind, but without giving in to pessimism. Being aware of the impermanence of things does not have to make us sad; it should help us love the present moment and those who surround us.

Ikigai: A complementary Japanese concept is that of ichi-go ichi-e, which could be translated as  This moment exists only now and won't come again. It is heard most often in social gatherings as a reminder that each encounter whether with friends, family, or strangers is unique and will never be repeated, meaning that we should enjoy the moment and not lose ourselves in worries about the past or the future.

Ikigai: As Taleb writes in Antifragile, We need randomness, mess, adventures, uncertainty, self-discovery, hear traumatic episodes, all these things that make life worth living.

Ikigai: Life is pure imperfection, as the philosophy of wabi-sabi teaches us, and the passage of time shows us that everything is fleeting, but if you have a clear sense of your ikigai, each moment will hold so many possibilities that it will seem almost like an eternity.

Ikigai: Powerful forces and incentives (money, power, attention, success) distract us on a daily basis; dont let them take over your life.

Ikigai: Life is not a problem to be solved. Just remember to have something that keeps you busy doing what you love while being surrounded by the people who love you.

Ikigai: Stay active; don't retire. Those who give up the things they love doing and do well lose their purpose in life. That's why it's so important to keep doing things of value, making progress, bringing beauty or utility to others

Ikigai: Being in a hurry is inversely proportional to quality of life. As the old saying goes,  Walk slowly and you'll go far. When we leave urgency behind, life and time take on new meaning.

Ikigai: instead of stuffing ourselves. Surround yourself with good friends. Friends are the best medicine, there for confiding worries over a good chat, sharing stories that brighten your day, getting advice, having fun, dreaming . in other words, living. Get in shape for your next birthday. Water moves; it is at its best when it flows fresh and doesn't stagnate. The body you move through life in needs a bit of daily maintenance to keep it running for a long time. Plus, exercise releases hormones that make us feel happy.

Ikigai: Smile. A cheerful attitude is not only relaxing it also helps make friends. It's good to recognize the things that aren't so great, but we should never forget what a privilege it

Ikigai: is to be in the here and now in a world so full of possibilities.

Ikigai: Reconnect with nature. Though most people live in cities these days, human beings are made to be part of the natural world.

Ikigai: Give thanks. To your ancestors, to nature, which provides you with the air you breathe and the food you eat, to your friends and family, to everything that brightens your days and makes you feel lucky to be alive. Spend a moment every day giving thanks.

Ikigai: Live in the moment. Stop regretting the past and fearing the future. Today is all you have. Make the most of it. Make it worth remembering.

Ikigai: Follow your ikigai. There is a passion inside you, a unique talent that gives meaning to your days and drives you to share the best of yourself until the very end. If you dont know what your ikigai is yet, as Viktor Frankl says, your mission is to discover

The Alchemist: And he gave the boy his blessing. The boy could see in his father’s gaze a desire to be able, himself, to travel the world—a desire that was still alive, despite his father’s having had to bury it, over dozens of years, under the burden of struggling for water to drink, food to eat, and the same place to sleep every night of his life.

The Alchemist: It’s the possibility of having a dream come true that makes life interesting

The Alchemist: I told you that your dream was a difficult one. It’s the simple things in life that are the most extraordinary; only wise men are able to understand them.

The Alchemist: “What’s the world’s greatest lie?” the boy asked, completely surprised. “It’s this: that at a certain point in our lives, we lose control of what’s happening to us, and our lives become controlled by fate. That’s the world’s greatest lie.”

The Alchemist: Everyone, when they are young, knows what their Personal Legend is. “At that point in their lives, everything is clear and everything is possible. They are not afraid to dream, and to yearn for everything they would like to see happen to them in their lives. But, as time passes, a mysterious force begins to convince them that it will be impossible for them to realize their Personal Legend.

The Alchemist: The old man continued, “In the long run, what people think about shepherds and bakers becomes more important for them than their own Personal Legends.”

The Alchemist: He was sure that it made no difference to her on which day he appeared: for her, every day was the same, and when each day is the same as the next, it’s because people fail to recognize the good things that happen in their lives every day that the sun rises.

The Alchemist: “Don’t forget that everything you deal with is only one thing and nothing else. And don’t forget the language of omens. And, above all, don’t forget to follow your Personal Legend through to its conclusion.

The Alchemist: “I’m like everyone else—I see the world in terms of what I would like to see happen, not what actually does.”

The Alchemist: As he mused about these things, he realized that he had to choose between thinking of himself as the poor victim of a thief and as an adventurer in quest of his treasure. “I’m an adventurer, looking for treasure,” he said to himself.

The Alchemist: that there was a language in the world that everyone understood, a language the boy had used throughout the time that he was trying to improve things at the shop. It was the language of enthusiasm, of things accomplished with love and purpose,

The Alchemist: He suddenly felt tremendously happy. He could always go back to being a shepherd. He could always become a crystal salesman again. Maybe the world had other hidden treasures, but he had a dream, and he had met with a king. That doesn’t happen to just anyone!

The Alchemist: “In alchemy, it’s called the Soul of the World. When you want something with all your heart, that’s when you are closest to the Soul of the World. It’s always a positive force.” He also said that this was not just a human gift, that everything on the face of the earth had a soul, whether mineral, vegetable, or animal—or even just a simple thought.

The Alchemist: The boy thought about the crystal merchant. He had said that it was a good thing for the boy to clean the crystal pieces, so that he could free himself from negative thoughts. The boy was becoming more and more convinced that alchemy could be learned in one’s daily life.

The Alchemist: The boy went back to contemplating the silence of the desert, and the sand raised by the animals. “Everyone has his or her own way of learning things,” he said to himself. “His way isn’t the same as mine, nor mine as his. But we’re both in search of our Personal Legends, and I respect him for that.”

The Alchemist: I’m eating, that’s all I think about. If I’m on the march, I just concentrate on marching. If I have to fight, it will be just as good a day to die as any other. “Because I don’t live in either my past or my future.

The Alchemist: I’m interested only in the present. If you can concentrate always on the present, you’ll be a happy man. You’ll see that there is life in the desert, that there are stars in the heavens, and that tribesmen fight because they are part of the human race. Life will be a party for you, a grand fes-tival, because life is the moment we’re living right now.”

The Alchemist: He still had a long way to go to reach the Pyramids, and someday this morning would just be a memory. But this was the present moment—the party the camel driver had mentioned—and he wanted to live it as he did the lessons of his past and his dreams of the future. Although the vision of the date palms would someday be just a memory, right now it signified shade, water, and a refuge from the war. Yesterday, the camel’s groan signaled danger, and now a row of date palms could herald a miracle. The world speaks many languages, the boy thought.

The Alchemist: “This is the first phase of the job,” he said. “I have to separate out the sulfur. To do that successfully, I must have no fear of failure. It was my fear of failure that first kept me from attempting the Master Work. Now, I’m beginning what I could have started ten years ago. But I’m happy at least that I didn’t wait twenty years.”

The Alchemist: How do I guess at the future? Based on the omens of the present. The secret is here in the present. If you pay attention to the present, you can improve upon it. And, if you improve on the present, what comes later will also be better. Forget about the future, and live each day according to the teachings, confident that God loves his children. Each day, in itself, brings with it an eternity.”

The Alchemist: “I am following my Personal Legend. It’s not something you would understand.” The stranger placed his sword in its scabbard, and the boy relaxed. “I had to test your courage,” the stranger said. “Courage is the quality most essential to understanding the Language of the World.”

The Alchemist: Remember that wherever your heart is, there you will find your treasure. You’ve got to find the treasure, so that everything you have learned along the way can make sense. “Tomorrow, sell your camel and buy a horse.

The Alchemist: “There is only one way to learn,” the alchemist answered. “It’s through action. Everything you need to know you have learned through your journey.

The Alchemist: “Why do we have to listen to our hearts?” the boy asked, when they had made camp that day. “Because, wherever your heart is, that is where you’ll find your treasure.” “But my heart is agitated,” the boy said. “It has its dreams, it gets emotional, and it’s become passionate over a woman of the desert. It asks things of me, and it keeps me from sleeping many nights, when I’m thinking about her.” “Well, that’s good. Your heart is alive. Keep listening to what it has to say.”

The Alchemist: “Because you will never again be able to keep it quiet. Even if you pretend not to have heard what it tells you, it will always be there inside you, repeating to you what you’re thinking about life and about the world.” “You mean I should listen, even if it’s treasonous?” “Treason is a blow that comes unexpectedly. If you know your heart well, it will never be able to do that to you. Because you’ll know its dreams and wishes, and will know how to deal with them. “You will never be able to escape from your heart. So it’s better to listen to what it has to say. That way, you’ll never have to fear an unanticipated blow.” The

The Alchemist: “Tell your heart that the fear of suffering is worse than the suffering itself. And that no heart has ever suffered when it goes in search of its dreams, because every second of the search is a second’s encounter with God and with eternity.”

The Alchemist: We speak of them only to children. Later, we simply let life proceed, in its own direction, toward its own fate. But, unfortunately, very few follow the path laid out for them—the path to their Personal Legends, and to happiness. Most people see the world as a threatening place, and, because they do, the world turns out, indeed, to be a threatening place.

The Alchemist: The boy remembered an old proverb from his country. It said that the darkest hour of the night came just before the dawn.

The Alchemist: “To show you one of life’s simple lessons,” the alchemist answered. “When you possess great treasures within you, and try to tell others of them, seldom are you believed.”

The Alchemist: “Don’t give in to your fears,” said the alchemist, in a strangely gentle voice. “If you do, you won’t be able to talk to your heart.”

The Alchemist: The alchemist said, “No matter what he does, every person on earth plays a central role in the history of the world. And normally he doesn’t know it.” The boy smiled. He had never imagined that questions about life would be of such importance to a shepherd. “Good-bye,” the alchemist said. “Good-bye,” said the boy.

The subtle art of not giving a fuck: Death is certain 

The subtle art of not giving a fuck: don’t overestimate your problems to make it unsolvable

The subtle art of not giving a fuck: you are not the only one on earth who have problems

The subtle art of not giving a fuck: don’t try to avoid the pain of your problems 

The subtle art of not giving a fuck: being optimistic all the time is not the answer to all of your problem 

The subtle art of not giving a fuck: you are not special in anyway you don’t deserve special treatment 

The subtle art of not giving a fuck: don’t blame others on your problems this will not solve any of them

The subtle art of not giving a fuck: any problem in your life you are the one who is responsible for solving it not ignoring it even if you are not the reason of it

The subtle art of not giving a fuck: Don’t give yourself so many choices because no matter how good is your choice you will always think what would happen if you chose any of the other choices

The subtle art of not giving a fuck: stop spending money on thing you don’t need 

The subtle art of not giving a fuck: you say that you have experience in so many things while the only thing you have done is scratch the surface of so many things to have experienced you must dig deep in each chance

The subtle art of not giving a fuck: don’t help someone because you feel you have to but because you want to , remember helping is an option not a must

The subtle art of not giving a fuck: remember death is certain so being shy , scared or confused is not necessarily

The Luck Factor: Serendipity is not serendipitous. Serendipity is ubiquitous.

The Luck Factor: Often, our expectations make a difference. They make a difference to whether we try something, how hard we persist in the face of failure, how we interact with others and how others interact with us.

The Luck Factor: Lucky people create, notice and act upon the chance opportunities in their life

The Luck Factor: being in the right state of mind.

The Luck Factor: They all enter a very large number of competitions. Each week, Wendy enters about sixty postal competitions, and about seventy Internet-based competitions.

The Luck Factor: win a lot of competitions and prizes, but I do put a huge amount of effort into it.’

The Luck Factor: The first dimension I examined is referred to as ‘Agreeableness’. This is a measure of the degree to which someone is sympathetic towards others and willing to help them. Interestingly, lucky people scored no higher on Agreeableness than unlucky people.

The Luck Factor: Another way in which lucky people increase the likelihood of chance encounters in their lives revolves around a concept known as ‘social magnetism’. Psychologists have noticed that certain people seem able to draw other people towards them. These ‘social magnets’ often find that whenever they go to parties or attend meetings, strangers initiate conversations with them. When they walk along the street, people frequently ask them for directions or the correct time. For some strange reason, other people just seem drawn to them. Perhaps not surprisingly, far more extroverts than introverts are ‘social magnets’.

The Luck Factor: Research has revealed that these people attract others because, without realising it, ‘social magnets’ exhibit the types of body language and facial expressions that other people find attractive and inviting. Interestingly, lucky people exhibit exactly the same pattern of behaviour.

The Luck Factor: The lucky people smiled twice as much as unlucky people and engaged in far more eye contact. However, perhaps the biggest differences emerged when we examined the degree to which they engaged in ‘open’ or ‘closed’ body language. People exhibit ‘closed’ body language when they cross their arms and legs, and orient themselves away from the person they are speaking to. ‘Open’ body language is exactly the opposite. People point their bodies towards the person that they are speaking to, uncross their arms and legs and often make gestures that involve them displaying open palms. Lucky people tended to engage in three times as much ‘open’ body language as unlucky people. Lucky people’s body language and facial expressions attract other people to them, and, again, the more people they meet, the greater the probability of them having a chance encounter.

The Luck Factor: Lucky people are effective at building secure, and long lasting, attachments with the people that they meet. They are easy to get to know and most people like them. They tend to be trusting and form close friendships with others. As a result, they often keep in touch with a much larger number of friends and colleagues than unlucky people, and time and time again, this network of friends helps promote opportunity in their lives.

The Luck Factor: A large part of it stems from just being out there. If you’re busy and active, you meet lots of people and enter other spheres. I tend to chat to strangers and I think it’s that aspect of my personality that has brought me many of my friends and lovers. I’ll seek out interesting people rather than be bored. If I go to an event or a party, I’ll try and make certain that I’ll find somebody that’s interesting to talk to.

The Luck Factor: I also hold lots of parties. People generally say things like ‘Oh, that was a great party, you have such wonderful parties.’

The Luck Factor: Lucky people have a relaxed attitude towards life

The Luck Factor: Lucky people’s ability to notice opportunities is a result of their relaxed way of looking at the world. It is not that they expect to find certain opportunities, but rather that they notice them when they come across them.

The Luck Factor: Exactly the same principle applies when they meet and chat with other people. They do not go to parties and meetings trying hard to find their dream partners or someone who will offer them their perfect job. Instead, they are simply relaxed and therefore more attuned to the opportunities around them. They go to parties and listen to people. Lucky people see what is there, rather than trying to find what they want to see. As a result, they are far more receptive to any opportunities that arise naturally.

The Luck Factor: come across many positive opportunities by relaxing, and not being so rigid in what he was looking for:

The Luck Factor: I’ve found, is that if I want a very specific thing, then life’s not so lucky, but if I relax and leave it open, everything always turns out much better.

The Luck Factor: This exercise is designed to illustrate the power of chance opportunities: how the smallest of events and decisions can have a huge impact on your life. In reality, we obviously cannot turn back the clock and change the past. There is simply no way of knowing what would have happened if you had actually met that mystery person. It is possible, however, to change your future.

The Luck Factor: Lucky people are open to new experiences in their lives

The Luck Factor: She is also always trying out new products and her house is full of different kinds of breakfast cereals, washing powder, deodorant and toothpaste. As she explained to me, the principle even affects her weekly trips to surrounding stores:

The Luck Factor: If you told me to go to the same store every single week and pick up the same thirty items, exactly the same, that would drive me mad. I have to go to one store one week, another the next week and a third the week after that.

The Luck Factor: Another person described a special technique that he had developed to force him to meet different people. He had noticed that whenever he went to a party, he tended to talk to the same type of people. To help disrupt this routine, and make life more fun, he thinks of a colour before he arrives at the party and then chooses to speak only to people wearing that colour of clothing! At one party he only spoke to women in red; at another he chatted exclusively to men in black.

The Luck Factor: Martin was first to arrive at the coffee shop. He immediately noticed the £5 note, picked it up and walked into the shop. Once inside, he ordered a coffee and sat down next to the successful businessman. Within minutes, Martin had

The Luck Factor: They do this in various ways. They initiate conversations with more people because they are extroverts. More people start to chat to them because of their ‘social magnetism’. They are good at keeping in touch with people, too. Lucky people are also more relaxed than unlucky people, and this makes them more able to notice unexpected chance opportunities in many different aspects of their lives. Finally, lucky people also introduce more variety and new experiences into their lives, and this also helps to increase the likelihood of them experiencing, and maximising, chance opportunities.

The Luck Factor: PRINCIPLE ONE: Maximise Your Chance Opportunities Lucky people create, notice and act upon the chance opportunities in their life. Sub-principles: 1: Lucky people build and maintain a strong ‘network of luck’.

The Luck Factor: 1: Build and maintain a strong ‘network of luck’. 2: Lucky people have a relaxed attitude towards life. 3: Lucky people are open to new experiences in their life.

The Luck Factor: someone that you would like to make contact with. Don’t try to fake it by putting on a false smile. Instead, think about how you genuinely feel. Also, force yourself to adopt an ‘open’ posture. Uncross your arms and legs, and keep your hands away from your face. Initiate and maintain friendly amounts of eye contact. Open up and have fun trying to attract people to you.

The Luck Factor: Stay in touch with friends and colleagues.

The Luck Factor: Do not try to chat to people who make you feel uncomfortable – instead, only try to initiate a conversation with people who look friendly and approachable. Try to avoid making your opening gambit look artificial and contrived. Instead, capitalise on a naturally occurring situation, such as when you find yourself standing next to someone in a line, or happen to be in the same section of a bookshop as them, or you sit next to them on a train or aeroplane. To break the ice, ask the person for information or help. In a store you might ask them if they know when the store closes, in the street you might ask them for directions or whether they know a good place to eat. Alternatively, find something about the person that you like, or find interesting, and comment on it. At a party you might notice that someone is wearing a sweater that you really like and ask them where they bought it. In a coffee shop you might see that someone has a book that you have been thinking about reading and ask them what they think of it. Use open, rather then closed, questions. Closed questions can be answered with a simple ‘yes’ or ‘no’ and do not encourage conversation. Open questions require longer, more descriptive, answers and often act as a natural springboard for interaction. For example, ‘Do you like Tolkien?’ is a closed question, whereas ‘What do you think of Tolkien?’ is an open question.

The Luck Factor: If the person seems friendly, elaborate on your opening gambit. Tell them why you needed to know when the store closes, why you want directions to a certain place, or why you were thinking of reading a particular book. If you get on really well, suggest meeting up again. Don’t be afraid of being direct, and just asking them if they would like to meet for coffee sometime, or perhaps think about inviting them to a party or to the cinema with your friends. Most important of all – don’t be afraid of rejection. Your first few attempts may simply involve a brief interaction and nothing more. Don’t take it personally – perhaps the person was busy or just didn’t feel like chatting – instead, keep on going. There are lots of people out there and many will be delighted that you made the effort to chat to them.

The Luck Factor: been in touch with for a while. Many people find this difficult. Here are some ideas about how to do it: Look through your address book and make a list of the names and telephone numbers of everyone that you haven’t spoken to for a while. Go back over your past school, work and community connections. Make the list as long as possible. Then, each week play the ‘ten-minute contact game’. Give yourself ten minutes to talk to someone that you haven’t spoken to for a while. Choose someone, pick up the telephone and call that person. If they answer the call, have a chat with them – explain that you felt bad about not being in contact, ask them how they are and what has been happening in their life. If they don’t answer the telephone, then quickly find another candidate from your address book and call them. You have ten minutes to talk to someone that you haven’t spoken to for a while. And your time starts now.

The Luck Factor: Look through your address book and make a list of the names and telephone numbers of everyone that you haven’t spoken to for a while. Go back over your past school, work and community connections. Make the list as long as possible. Then, each week play the ‘ten-minute contact game’. Give yourself ten minutes to talk to someone that you haven’t spoken to for a while. Choose someone, pick up the telephone and call that person. If they answer the call, have a chat with them – explain that you felt bad about not being in contact, ask them how they are and what has been happening in their life. If they don’t answer the telephone, then quickly find another candidate from your address book and call them. You have ten minutes to talk to someone that you haven’t spoken to for a while. And your time starts now.

The Luck Factor: 2: Develop a more relaxed attitude towards life

The Luck Factor: Lucky people are more relaxed about life and therefore notice the opportunities around them. Also, it is not only a case of how you look, but where you look. You may remember how lucky people often come across life-changing opportunities in newspapers and magazines. Lynne’s entire life changed when she came across an article in a local newspaper about a woman who had won a few competition prizes. That article eventually led to Lynne winning several large prizes in national competitions and achieving her lifelong ambition of being a successful freelance writer. Other lucky people spoke about the important opportunities that they have come across by surfing the Internet and listening to the radio. I would like you to incorporate these techniques into your life

The Luck Factor: Try to look at the world through the eyes of a child – without expectations and prejudice. See what is there rather than what you expect to be there. Relax. Have fun. Do not let your expectations limit your vision. If you go to a party totally focused on meeting your perfect partner, you might miss a wonderful opportunity to make a lifelong friend. Remember that you are surrounded by opportunities. It is just a case of looking in the right places and seeing what is really there.

The Luck Factor: First of all, find a quiet room or place. Next, close your eyes and take a few deep breaths. Now imagine yourself in a scene that you find relaxing. Perhaps you are lying on a sun-drenched beach. Perhaps you are walking through a leafy glade on a summer day. Perhaps you are looking out on a perfectly still lake. In your mind, create whatever scene makes you feel calm and happy. Imagine what it would look like. Imagine what you would hear if you were really there: the sound of the sea on the shore; the sound of the birds; the wind in the trees. Imagine the grains of sand against your fingertips,

The Luck Factor: Start with your head. Relax the muscles in your face as you feel the tension and stress fall away. Now gently move your head from side to side, and then up and down. Let your shoulders become relaxed and free. Gently shake your arms and hands as you imagine the tension flowing out through the tips of your fingers. Take another deep breath and let your upper body relax. Gently shake each of your legs and imagine them becoming relaxed and free. Spend a few moments letting a feeling of total calm move through your body.

The Luck Factor: Play the dice game Make a list of six new experiences – things that you have never done before, but wouldn’t mind trying.

The Luck Factor: You have to make a promise to yourself. You have to promise that you will roll the die, and carry out whichever experience is selected. You are not allowed to swap the experience for another one or decide to back out.

The Luck Factor: business and finance. The results were fascinating. As you can see in the graph here, a very large percentage of lucky people used their intuition when making decisions in two of the four areas mentioned on the questionnaire. Almost 90% of lucky people said that they trusted their intuition when it came to their personal relationships, and almost 80% said that it played a vital role in their career choices. Perhaps more importantly, a greater percentage of lucky than unlucky people reported trusting their intuition in all four areas. And often these differences were far from trivial. About 20% more lucky than unlucky people used their intuition when it came to making important financial decisions, and 20% more used their intuition when thinking about their career choices.

The Luck Factor: Far more lucky than unlucky people were relying on their intuition when it came to making important decisions in their lives.

The Luck Factor: Regardless of whether the decisions are trivial or significant, you are aware of the thinking behind them. Percentage of unlucky and lucky people using intuition when making decisions in various areas of their lives.

The Luck Factor: Their desire to find the perfect partner might make them overlook obvious signs of deceit or incompatibility. Their need to make easy money might cause them to invest in an obvious scam or confidence game. However,

The Luck Factor: EXERCISE 7: The role of intuition in your life This exercise is designed to assess the degree to which your intuition, lucky hunches and gut feelings have played an important role in your life. At the top of a new page in your luck journal, write the heading ‘Times when I was glad that I followed my intuition’. Think back to the times when you can remember having a strong intuitive feeling about a person or situation, acted upon that feeling and are now glad that you did.

The Luck Factor: Now, at the top of the next page in your journal, write the title ‘Times when I failed to follow my intuition and lived to regret it’. This time, think about any instances when you experienced a strong gut feeling about a person or situation, didn’t take any action and now wish that you had. Perhaps you had a gut feeling that your partner was cheating on you,

The Luck Factor: Look at the events that you have written on each page of your luck journal. When most people complete this exercise they realise that their intuition has played a vital role in some of the most important decisions in their lives. Many people also realise that some of their biggest failures in life have been due to a reluctance to listen to their inner voice. Imagine what it would be like to live a life in which your intuitive feelings were far more frequent and accurate. A life in which your hunches acted as a reliable alarm bell that something was right or wrong.

The Luck Factor: These included a range of methods, such as clearing your mind of other thoughts, meditation, finding a quiet place, and being contemplative.

The Luck Factor: Visit the old man in the cave There are times when you will be faced with a decision and want to hear what your inner voice has to say about each of the possible options. Whenever that happens, try the following exercise. Find a quiet room and comfortable chair. Sit down, close your eyes and take a few deep breaths. Imagine yourself being magically transported to the entrance of a cave on a remote mountain. You walk inside the cave, and suddenly feel relaxed and content. You feel secure and totally isolated from the outside world. Calm and peaceful. Imagine that there is an old man sitting in the corner of the cave. He invites you to sit opposite him and describe each of your options, but he doesn’t want to hear about them in terms of facts and figures, profit and loss, logic and reason. Neither does he want to hear about what others think you should do, or what you think you should do out of a sense of duty. Instead, he would like you simply to describe how you feel about each of the options: what feels right and what feels wrong. The conversation will be completely confidential and so you can be totally honest. Don’t think about what you would say. Just say it. Right now. Out loud. Tell the old man how you really feel. Now slowly open your eyes.

The Luck Factor: What did you say about your options? Which of them felt right and which felt wrong? How does this compare with the objective evidence about each of these options? If the evidence and your feelings are in line, then you have found your answer. If you discovered that you feel uneasy about an option, even though the evidence suggests that it is correct, then it is perhaps best to reconsider the situation. Take some time out and think carefully before moving forward. Perhaps you will decide to ignore the evidence and follow your intuition.

The Luck Factor: Make the decision, then stop To find out how you really feel about your options, simply choose one of them and commit your decision to paper. So, if you are uncertain about whether to finish a relationship, just write a letter to your partner explaining that it is all over. If you are uncertain about whether to hand in your notice at work, just go for it and write your resignation letter. Now stop. How do you feel right now. You are holding your future in your hands. Do you really want to send that letter or is there something inside telling you that it doesn’t feel right? Is that your intuition or are you simply afraid of change? When it came to the crunch, what did your inner voice say to you?

The Luck Factor: SUGGESTED EXERCISE Make meditation matter Many lucky people feel that meditation is the simplest way of increasing their intuition. The idea is not to try to develop any intuitive feelings during the meditation itself. Instead, the meditation is a time for clearing your mind of all other thoughts

The Luck Factor: Focus your thoughts on the word and try to prevent them from wandering on to other topics. At first, this will be far from easy, but stay with it and remember that practice makes perfect. Over time you will find it easier and easier to focus your thoughts and create a sense of stillness. After about ten minutes or so of focused thought, slowly open your eyes. Try this simple exercise three times a week, for about twenty minutes each time, and see what effect it has on your luck.

The Luck Factor: Sub-principle 1: Lucky people expect their good luck to continue in the future We all have expectations about

The Luck Factor: lucky people’s expectations of good things happening to them were massively higher than the expectations held by unlucky people.

The Luck Factor: On average, lucky people thought that there was about a 90% chance of them having a great time on their next holiday, an 84% chance of them achieving at least one of their lifetime ambitions and about a 70% chance of being given fifty pounds to spend on themselves. All of these expectations were much higher than those expressed by unlucky people, and lucky people’s high expectations were not just confined to certain questions. Instead, they were certain that they were very likely to experience both general and specific positive events, and those that were both within and outside their control.

The Luck Factor: I always go into things believing they’ll work out well. I am convinced that everything will be great. I’ve certainly come unstuck, but even then, good things come out of the bad and I always come out smiling. Some people don’t realise their luck when it is there. They look out of the window and say ‘Oh dear, its raining today,’ but I see the rain and think ‘Great, my flowers will be out tomorrow.’

The Luck Factor: Most people tend to base their expectations about the future on what has happened in the past. If you have been healthy in the past then you probably expect to be healthy in the future. If you have performed well at job interviews in the past then you will probably expect to perform well in the future.

The Luck Factor: What happens, however, when unlucky people encounter lucky events and lucky people encounter unlucky events? Surely this must make their expectations about the future a little less extreme? In fact, this is not the case. Instead, something very strange happens. Lucky people see any bad luck in their lives as being very short lived. They simply shrug it off and don’t let it affect their expectations about the future. Unlucky people are convinced that any good luck in their lives will only last for a short period of time, and will quickly be followed by their regular dose of bad luck.

The Luck Factor: Another ingenious experiment demonstrated that people’s expectations can even affect their reaction time. Participants were randomly assigned to one of two groups. People in one group were asked to press a switch the moment that a light came on. They were asked to try as hard as they could. The other group were told to imagine that they were fighter pilots with very fast reactions. They were then given exactly the same task as the first group, that is, to press a button whenever a light was illuminated. Amazingly, people in the second group responded much faster than those in the first group. They expected to do well and their expectations affected their behaviour. In just the same way, lucky people expect to do well in life and these expectations play a major role in their success.

The Luck Factor: Sub-principle 2: Lucky people attempt to achieve their goals, even if their chances of success seem slim, and persevere in the face of failure

The Luck Factor: These comments provide a striking insight into how unlucky people create much of the bad luck in their lives. If they don’t attend an exam, then they are certain to fail. If they don’t try to look for a job, then they will remain unemployed. If they are reluctant to go on dates, then they reduce their chances of finding a partner. They also illustrate the power of self-fulfilling prophecies.

The Luck Factor: The results were striking. Over 60% of unlucky people said that they thought the puzzle was impossible, compared to just 30% of lucky people. As in so many areas of their lives, the unlucky people had given up before they had even started.

The Luck Factor: People with more positive expectations about the future tend to take steps to ensure a healthy lifestyle. They exercise more, eat a balanced diet, take appropriate preventative measures and pay attention to medical advice.

The Luck Factor: Often, lucky people’s high expectations also motivate them to persist, even in the face of considerable adversity.

The Luck Factor: You make your own luck through your attitude. If you sit in the house and do nothing then nothing will come to you, but if you’re out there working for it then it will come and find you. I firmly believe that I am lucky. Even though things might look a bit black at times, I know that it will be all right. As long as you just keep battling away . . . as long as you keep on with whatever the problem is, trying to find a way through it for yourself, you’ll find the bit of luck that you need will come, and push you through.

The Luck Factor: It’s a state of mind. My mother and father were a great influence on me – I grew up to believe that you can do whatever you want if you believe in yourself enough and are positive.

The Luck Factor: Sub-principle 3: Lucky people expect their interactions with others to be lucky and successful

The Luck Factor: In the workplace, lucky people expect those around them to be productive and competent, and they expect their meetings to be successful and profitable.

The Luck Factor: Managers with high expectations about their subordinates motivate the people around them to perform well,

The Luck Factor: Lee’s ‘dream wishing’ helps him to create positive expectations in his mind about the way that he will interact with others.

The Luck Factor: Lucky people also said that they expected to meet interesting, fun and attractive people in their personal lives, and expect their interactions with these people to go well. These expectations can easily become self-fulfilling prophecies.

The Luck Factor: 1: Lucky people expect their good luck to continue in the future. 2: Lucky people attempt to achieve their goals, even if their chances of success seem slim, and persevere in the face of failure. 3: Lucky people expect their interactions with others to be lucky and successful.

The Luck Factor: the next few weeks I would like you to start each day by repeating the following affirmations to yourself out loud: ‘I am a lucky person and today is going to be another lucky day.’ ‘I know that I can be even luckier in the future.’ ‘I deserve good luck and will receive some good fortune today.’ At first, you might feel odd, but give it a try and notice the difference. Set

The Luck Factor: Write the following three headings on a new page in your luck journal: Short-term goals Medium-term goals Long-term goals Now produce three lists. The first contains your short-term goals – those that you want to attain over the next month. The second list consists of those goals that you want to attain over the next six months. Finally, your list of long-term goals contains your objectives over the next year or more. Most people find this quite difficult. However, here are a few tips that you might find helpful: Think about goals in all aspects of your life – what you would like to achieve on both a personal and professional level. Try to make your goals as specific as possible – rather than write a general sentence, such as ‘I would like to be happy’, try to reflect on the issue and work out what would make you happy – perhaps you would like to be in a loving relationship or have a job that you enjoy. Then try to break these ideas down even further, perhaps, for example, by thinking about the type of partner that you would like to be with, or the type of job that you would find most satisfying. These types of specific goals are far more effective than general goals. Most importantly of all, make your goals achievable. Lucky people have high expectations about the future, but do not expect to achieve the impossible. Try to create goals that are attainable. Remember that you can always return to your list and revise it once you have achieved a goal. Take it one step at a time. You might find it helpful to note down a deadline for achieving some of your more important goals. Keep these deadlines realistic and attainable. This list represents your expectations for the future – the goals that you intend to achieve with your good luck. Look at them on a regular basis and monitor your progress.

The Luck Factor: The lucky people were prepared to persevere, even in the face of great adversity. Think like them. Be open to the idea of taking a break, or trying a different way of achieving your goals, but be prepared to try, and try again, until your dreams and ambitions come true.

The Luck Factor: Find a quiet room and sit in a comfortable chair. Close your eyes and relax. Take a deep breath. In your mind’s eye, imagine yourself in the forthcoming situation. Think about the surroundings, the people who will probably be there, the sights and sounds that you are likely to encounter. Now imagine yourself being lucky and successful in that situation. If you are visualising a job interview, imagine yourself coming across as competent and knowledgeable. Think about the types of questions that are likely to arise and imagine yourself giving great answers.

The Luck Factor: They also compare themselves with other people who have experienced even more ill fortune.

The Luck Factor: Lucky people are convinced that any ill fortune in their life will, in the long run, work out for the best

The Luck Factor: Lucky people do the opposite. They let go of the past and focus on the future.

The Luck Factor: I think meditation helps me to get a better perspective on life. You can switch off, calm down and when you wake up de-stressed, you take a different view on things. It makes you realise that if you can’t change a situation then there’s no point in getting stressed. If you can take some action and do something about it, then do it;

The Luck Factor: when we look back on our lives in a happy mood, we tend to remember life events that worked out well.

The Luck Factor: Lucky people take constructive steps to prevent more bad luck in the future

The Luck Factor: lucky people often spontaneously said that they would treat their failures as an opportunity to learn and grow.

The Luck Factor: When people say that they hate their jobs, I say to them ‘If you don’t like the job you’re doing, then get out of it.’ But some people will say ‘Well, I can’t get out of it, I’m stuck in it, I’m unlucky and there’s nothing else.’ But I really don’t believe in that way of thinking. I believe if you’re not happy in what you do, then you should actively look to change it. Because if you change what you do to something you enjoy doing, you’ll feel better about yourself and change your luck as well.

The Luck Factor: lucky people imagine how things could have been worse and they compare themselves to people who are unluckier than themselves. Second, they take the ‘long view’ and assume that something positive will come from their bad luck. Third, they do not dwell on the ill fortune that they have encountered. Fourth, they assume that there is something they can do about their ill fortune – they persist, think about lateral ways around the problem, and learn from their mistakes.

The Luck Factor: Think of ways in which the situation could have been far worse. You may have experienced a car accident, but at least you survived. You may have been late for an important appointment, but there again, you could have missed it altogether.

The Luck Factor: Ask yourself if the unlucky event really matters. You may have been turned down for a promotion, but will that affect the important aspects of your life, such as your health and your relationships with others?

The Luck Factor: Compare yourself with those who are less fortunate. You may have a bad back, but there are many people in the world suffering from far more serious illnesses. Compared to them, your bad luck is trivial.

The Luck Factor: When they experienced bad luck, some lucky people said that they found it helpful spending about thirty minutes or so venting their negative emotions – some cried, some took it out on a punchbag and some went into an open field and screamed – but all lucky people agreed that it was really important not to dwell on their bad luck.

The Luck Factor: First, don’t assume that there is nothing you can do about the situation. Make a decision to take control and not be a victim of bad luck. Second, do something now – not next week and not tomorrow, but right now. Third, make a list of all of your various options. Be creative. Think out of the box. Try looking at the situation from different points of view. Brainstorm. Come up with as many potential solutions as possible, no matter how silly or absurd they may seem. Ask your friends what they would do under the same circumstances. Keep on adding more and more possible solutions. Fourth, decide on how you are going to move forward. Consider each and every possible solution. How long will the solution take? Do you have the knowledge and skills to implement the solution? What are the likely outcomes if you decide to adopt a particular solution? Finally, and most important of all, start to solve the problem. Obviously, sometimes the solution might involve waiting rather than rushing to do something foolhardy – that’s fine, providing your inaction is part of a plan and not simple procrastination. Also, be prepared to adapt your solution as the future unfolds. Such self-restraint and flexibility are important aspects of being lucky. But the important point is that you start to concentrate on finding a solution rather

The Luck Factor: for example, you need to improve your intuition (Principle Two), you might want to enhance your ability to listen to your inner voice by carrying out exercises entitled ‘Visit the old man in the cave’ (here) and ‘Make the decision, then stop’ (here). You might also want to take some simple steps to boost your intuition, for instance by trying the exercise entitled ‘Make meditation matter’ (here).
Highlight

The Luck Factor: you might want to enhance your ability to listen to your inner voice by carrying out exercises entitled ‘Visit the old man in the cave’ (here) and ‘Make the decision, then stop’ (here). You might also want to take some simple steps to boost your intuition, for instance by trying the exercise entitled ‘Make meditation matter’ (here).

The Luck Factor: Make a note of as many lucky events as possible. Remember to include events that seem relatively trivial as well as those that are more important. Each morning, look back on the luck

The Luck Factor: In Chapter 3 I noted how lucky people have much broader social networks than others, and how this increases the likelihood of them experiencing lucky encounters.

The Way Of The : As of now, spend a minimum of one hour a day doing whatever you are waiting to do

The Way Of The : At least one hour a day doing whatever you simply love to do—what you deeply feel you need to do, in your heart—in spite of the daily duties that seem to constrain you.

The Way Of The : Most postponements are excuses for a lack of creative discipline.

The Way Of The : Every moment waited is a moment wasted, and each wasted moment degrades your clarity of purpose.

The Way Of The : A man must love his father and yet be free of his father's expectations and criticisms in order to be a free man.

The Way Of The : your father's critical eye? For the next three days, do at least one activity a day that you have avoided or suppressed because of the influence of your father. In this way, practice being free of his subtle expectations, which may now reside within your own self-judgment. Practice being free in this way, once each day for three days, even if you still feel fearful, limited, unworthy, or burdened by your father's expectations.

The Way Of The : He shouldn't pretend he is more enlightened than he is—nor should he stop short of his actual edge. The more a man is playing his real edge, the more valuable he is as good company for other men, the more he can be trusted to be authentic and fully present. Where a man's edge is located is less important than whether he is actually living his edge in truth, rather than being lazy or deluded.

The Way Of The : If you were absolutely fearless, would you be earning a living in exactly the same way as you are now? Your edge is where you stop short, or where you compromise your fullest gift, and, instead, cater to your fears.

The Way Of The : Honor your edge. Honor your choices. Be honest with yourself about them. Be honest with your friends about them. A fearful man who knows he is fearful is far more trustable than a fearful man who isn't aware of his fear. And a fearful man who still leans into his fear, living at his edge and putting his gift out from there, is more trustworthy and more inspirational than a fearful man who hangs back in the comfort zone, unwilling to even experience his fear on a day to day level.

The Way Of The : Spend time with people who inspire you and reflect the source to you.

The Way Of The : Meditate, contemplate, or pray daily so that you steep yourself in the source.

The Way Of The : Even if you find yourself in some trivial moment, watching TV or cleaning up a mess in the kitchen, feel the truth of who you are. Feel the boundless cognizance in which each instant seems and vanishes.

The Way Of The : "I don't trust my own wisdom." You are weakening yourself by telling yourself this. You are weakening your woman's trust in you: why should she trust your wisdom if you don't?

The Way Of The : Good friends should not tolerate mediocrity in one another.

The Way Of The : You may wish to go on a retreat in a remote area and be by yourself. Whatever it is you decide to do, consciously keep yourself open and available to receiving a vision of what is next. It will come.

The Way Of The : And then, one day, a few years later, it is finished. This layer has dissolved. And the cycle begins again, and again, until you have penetrated all the layers into your deepest purpose. Then, you act fully, until that purpose, too, is dissolved in the bliss of the love that you are.

The Way Of The : Inhale deeply, through your nose, and breathe through whatever tensions you notice in your body. Inhale deeply into your lower belly. Then exhale. On your next inhalation, breathe into your lower and upper belly. Then exhale. On your next inhalation, fill your entire belly, then your solar plexus and lower chest. Then exhale. Then inhale and fill your belly, solar plexus, and your entire chest, in that order. For several breaths, inhale fully in this way, filling your lower belly all the way down to your genitals, then the rest of your belly, solar plexus, and finally your chest. Then exhale fully, slowly, and smoothly. Throughout the day, practice this kind of breathing in random moments. Pay special attention to any part of your body that seems particularly tense or closed. For instance, if the area around your navel seems tight, then inhale into that area.

The Way Of The : Throughout the day, as soon as you feel tension in the front of your body, inhale into that area and open it.

The Way Of The : You will have to experiment to determine whether to inhale or to exhale the energy up your spine, although most people find that exhaling up the spine works best. If you combine the upward contraction of your pelvic floor with breathing up your spine, you should lose just a little bit of your

The Way Of The : Austerity means to eliminate the comforts and cushions in your life that you have learned to snuggle into and lose wakefulness. Take away anything that dulls your edge. No newspapers or magazines. No TV. No candy, cookies, or sweets. No sex. No cuddling. No reading of anything at all while you eat or sit on the toilet. Reduce working time to a necessary minimum. No movies. No conversation that isn't about truth, love, or the divine. If you take on these disciplines for a few weeks, as well as any other disciplines that may particularly cut through your unique habits of dullness, then your life will be stripped of routine distraction. All that will be left is the edge you have been avoiding by means of your daily routine. You will have to face the basic discomfort and dissatisfaction that is the hidden texture of your life. You will be alive with the challenge of living your truth, rather than hiding from it.

The Way Of The : The more superficial forms of challenge include activities like mountain climbing, ropes courses, competitive sports, and boot camp. These forms of physical challenge instantly enliven the masculine sense of purpose and direction, in men and women. Deeper forms of challenge involve directly giving your gift in ways that have been blocked by your fear. If you have always been afraid of public speaking, you can take on the challenge of speaking in public once a week for three months. If you fail and miss an appointment one week, the following week you must give three talks. If you have always wanted to write a novel, but could never finish one, you tell your friends that you are going to complete one chapter a week (or a month) for the next year. Every time you don't complete your weekly goal, you owe your friends $100. If you don't complete your yearly goal, you owe them $10,000. The point is, there must be a consequence for freezing in the face of fear. There are obvious consequences for freezing in the face of fear when mountain climbing or playing competitive sports. You must instill consequences throughout the rest of your life, unless you want to cling to the safety net

The Way Of The : Spend time every day in solitude, with no distractions. Just sit, for ten minutes. No fidgeting, no channel surfing, no magazine thumbing. Just be, exactly as you are, not trying to change anything. Stay with your suffering, until you fall through it and intuit the groundless source of your life. Just as your woman must regularly spend time with only women, you must regularly spend time with only men. At least once a week, get together with your men friends to serve one another. Cut through the bullshit and talk with each other straight. If you feel your friend is wasting his life, tell him so, because you love him. Welcome such criticism from your friends. Suggest challenges for each other to take on, in order to bring each other through the fears which limit your surrender in gifting. Always agree on consequences
