Sticky eyes also means intelligent eyes

Epoxy Eyes technique suggests you concentrate on the listener – your target – rather than the speaker. This slightly disorients Target and he or she silently asks, ‘Why is this person looking at me instead of the speaker?’

Visualize a circus iron-jaw bit hanging from the frame of every door you walk through. Take a bite and, with it firmly between your teeth, let it swoop you to the peak of the big top. When you Hang by Your Teeth, every muscle is stretched into perfect posture position. You are now ready to float into the room to captivate the crowd or close the sale (or maybe just settle for looking like the most important Somebody in the room).

They pay close attention to your instinctive body reactions. They watch to see how fully you are facing them and just how far forward or back you’re leaning while answering their questions. They check out your hands. Are they softly open, palms up, signifying acceptance of the ideas they’re expressing? Or are you making a slight fist, knuckles out, signalling rejection? They scrutinize your face for the split seconds you break eye contact when discussing relevant subjects like your feelings on big awards for damages, or the death penalty.

They pay close attention to your instinctive body reactions. They watch to see how fully you are facing them and just how far forward or back you’re leaning while answering their questions. They check out your hands. Are they softly open, palms up, signifying acceptance of the ideas they’re expressing? Or are you making a slight fist, knuckles out, signalling rejection? They scrutinize your face for the split seconds you break eye contact when discussing relevant subjects like your feelings on big awards for damages, or the death penalty.

Pivoting 100 per cent toward New Person shouts ‘I think you are very, very special.’

The secret to making people like you is showing how much you like them!

When meeting someone, play a mental trick on yourself. In your mind’s eye, see him or her as an old friend, someone you had a wonderful relationship with years ago. But somehow you lost track of your friend.

Hello Old Friend technique is it becomes a self-fulfilling prophesy. When you act as though you like someone, you start to really like them. An Adelphi University study called, appropriately, ‘Believing Another Likes or Dislikes You: Behaviours Making the Beliefs Come True’ proved it.

What it boils down to is: Love begets love, like begets like, respect begets respect. Use the Hello Old Friend technique and you will soon have many new ‘old friends’ who wind up genuinely liking you.

practicing empathy being understanding being transparent asking fact-finding questions, showing curiosity paying attention to the whole being having compassion once you know the story being yourself, authentic, genuine going deep yourself, showing vulnerability having an open mind not pushing your own personal agenda being clear and direct, no sugarcoating responding appropriately breaking down us versus them acknowledging human imperfection and human experience

1. Our careers, our companies, our relationships, and our very lives succeed or fail, gradually, then suddenly, one conversation at a time. 2. The conversation is the relationship. 3. All conversations are with myself, and sometimes they involve other people.

Now take a look at whatever you say is stopping you from creating and living this life. Write out the list of barriers, obstacles, or unfinished things that surface in your awareness. Make a note of everything you say is in the way, or everything you say has to be done first before you go about living your dream life.

Deep Work: Professional activities performed in a state of distraction-free concentration that push your cognitive capabilities to their limit. These efforts create new value, improve your skill, and are hard to replicate. – Deep work

CEO Bill Gates famously conducted “Think Weeks” twice a year, during which he would isolate himself (often in a lakeside cottage) to do nothing but read and think big thoughts. – Deep work

A newfound devotee of deep work, he rented an apartment across the street from his office, allowing him to show up early in the morning before anyone else arrived and work without distraction. “On good days, I can get in four hours of focus before the first meeting,” – Deep work

The Deep Work Hypothesis: The ability to perform deep work is becoming increasingly rare at exactly the same time it is becoming increasingly valuable in our economy. As a consequence, the few who cultivate this skill, and then make it the core of their working life, will thrive. – Deep work

Why have Silver, Hansson, and Doerr done so well? There are two types of answers to this question. The first are micro in scope and focus on the personality traits and tactics that helped drive this trio’s rise. The second type of answers are more macro in that they focus less on the individuals and more on the type of work they represent. – Deep work

economy. In this new economy, three groups will have a particular advantage: those who can work well and creatively with intelligent machines, those who are the best at what they do, and those with access to capital. – Deep work

Two Core Abilities for Thriving
in the New Economy The ability to quickly master hard things. The ability to produce at an elite level, in terms of both quality and speed. – Deep work
follows: (1) your attention is focused tightly on a specific skill you’re trying to improve or an idea you’re trying to master; (2) you receive feedback so you can correct your approach to keep your attention exactly where it’s most productive. – Deep work

This new science of performance argues that you get better at a skill as you develop more myelin around the relevant neurons, allowing the corresponding circuit to fire more effortlessly and effectively. To be great at something is to be well myelinated. – Deep work


1. Trigger A trigger is the actuator of behavior—the spark plug in the engine.Triggers come in two types: external and internal.8 Habit-forming products start by alerting users with external triggers like an e-mail, a Web site link, or the app icon on a phone. - Hooked

2. Action Following the trigger comes the action: the behavior done in anticipation of a reward. - Hooked

3. Variable Reward What distinguishes the Hooked Model from a plain vanilla feedback loop is the Hook’s ability to create a craving. Feedback loops are all around us, but predictable ones don’t create desire.  - Hooked


Although dopamine is often wrongly categorized as making us feel good, introducing variability does create a focused state, which suppresses the areas of the brain associated with judgment and reason while activating the parts associated with wanting and desire. – Hooked

The way you look and the way you move is more than 80 per cent of someone’s first impression of you. Not one word need be spoken. - How to Talk to Anyone

‘The study went on to say a big, warm smile is an asset. But only when it comes a little slower, because then it has more credibility.’ From that moment on, Missy explained, she gave clients and business associates her big smile. However, she trained her lips to erupt more slowly. Thus her smile appeared more sincere and personalized for the recipient.

Don’t flash an immediate smile when you greet someone, as though anyone who walked into your line of sight would be the beneficiary. Instead, look at the other person’s face for a second. Pause. Soak in their persona. Then let a big, warm, responsive smile flood over your face and overflow into your eyes.

Sticky eyes also means intelligent eyes There is yet another argument for intense eye contact. In addition to awakening feelings of respect and affection, maintaining strong eye contact gives you the impression of being an intelligent and abstract thinker.- How to Talk to Anyone

and kept his eyes on the waiter’s for an extra second before looking down again at the menu to choose the main dish.

Sometimes using full Epoxy Eyes is too potent, so here is a gentler, yet effective, form: Watch the speaker but let your glance bounce to your target each time the speaker finishes a point. This way Mr or Ms Target still feels you are intrigued

Hang by your teeth Visualize a circus iron-jaw bit hanging from the frame of every door you walk through. Take a bite and, with it firmly between your teeth, let it swoop you to the peak of the big top. When you Hang by Your Teeth, every muscle is stretched into perfect posture position. You are now ready to float into the room

Pivoting 100 per cent toward New Person shouts ‘I think you are very, very special.’

play a mental trick on yourself. In your mind’s eye, see him or her as an old friend, someone you had a wonderful relationship with years ago. But somehow you lost track of your friend.

When they’re using Hello Old Friend, the room comes alive. The atmosphere is charged with good feeling. The air sparkles with happier, high-energy people. They are standing closer, laughing more sincerely, and reaching out to one another.


When you act as though you like someone, you start to really like them.


Limit the fidget Whenever your conversation really counts, let your nose itch, your ear tingle, or your foot prickle. Do not fidget, twitch, wiggle, squirm, or scratch. And above all, keep your paws away from your face. Hand motions near your face and all fidgeting can give your listener the gut feeling you’re fibbing.


talking, keep your eyes on your listeners and watch how they’re responding to what you’re saying. Don’t miss a trick. Are they smiling? Are they nodding? Are their palms up? They like what they’re hearing. Are they frowning? Are they looking away? Are their knuckles clenched? Maybe they don’t. Are they rubbing their necks? Are they stepping back? Are their feet pointing toward the door? Maybe they want to get away.

saying. When they think you’re a pain in the neck they rub theirs. When they feel superior to you, they steeple their hands.

Make it a habit to get on a dual track while talking. Express yourself, but keep a keen eye on how your listener is reacting to what you’re saying. Then plan your moves accordingly.

Sports psychologists tell us visualization is not just for top-level competitive athletes. Studies show mental rehearsal helps weekend athletes sharpen their golf, their tennis, their running, whatever their favourite activity. Experts agree if you see the pictures, hear the sounds, and feel the movements of your body in your mind before you do the activity, the effect is powerful.

Visualization works best when you feel totally relaxed. Only when you have a calm state of mind can you get clear, vivid images. Do your visualization in the quiet of your home or car before leaving for the party, the convention, or the big-deal meeting. See it all in your mind’s eye ahead of time.

Hang by Your Teeth posture, shaking hands, smiling the Flooding Smile, and making Sticky Eyes. Hear yourself chatting comfortably with everyone. Feel the pleasure of knowing you are in peak form and everyone is gravitating toward you. Visualize yourself a Super Somebody. Then it all happens automatically.

But with Flooding Smile, Sticky Eyes, Epoxy Eyes, Hang by Your Teeth, Big-Baby Pivot, Hello Old Friend, Limit the Fidget, Hans’s Horse Sense and Watch the Scene Before You Make the Scene, you’ll be right

Top Communicators pick up on their listener’s tone of voice and duplicate it.

it’s not all what you say, it’s how you say it.

No matter how prosaic the text, an empathetic mood, a positive demeanour, and passionate delivery make you sound exciting.

Always wear a Whatzit Whenever you go to a gathering, wear or carry something unusual to give people who find you the delightful stranger across the crowded room an excuse to approach. ‘Excuse me, I couldn’t help but notice your … what IS that?’

Whoozat? Whoozat is the most effective, least used (by nonpoliticians) meeting-people device ever contrived. Simply ask the party giver to make the introduction, or pump for a few facts that you can immediately turn into icebreakers.

Eavesdrop in No Whatzit? No host for Whoozat? No problem! Just sidle up behind the swarm of folks you want to infiltrate and open your ears. Wait for any flimsy excuse and jump in with ‘Excuse me, I couldn’t help but overhear …’

Each time, through a series of nods and comforting grunts like ‘um hum,’ or ‘umm,’ you let your Conversation Partner know the ball has landed in your court. It’s your ‘I got it’ signal. Such is the rhythm of conversation.

Never be left speechless again. Like a parrot, simply repeat the last few words your Conversation Partner says. That puts the ball right back in his or her court, and then all you need to do is listen.

The sweetest sound your Conversation Partner can hear from your lips when you’re talking with a group of people is ‘Tell them about the time you …’ Whenever you’re at a meeting or party with someone important to you, think of some stories he or she told you.

The latest news … don’t leave home without it The last move to make before leaving for the party

You simply practise the following eight words. All together now: ‘How … do … you … spend … most … of … your … time?’ ‘How do you spend most of your time?’ is the gracious way to let a cadaver cutter, a tax collector, or a capsized employee off the hook.

You don’t need to be quite so melodramatic in your self-image, but at least punch up your life to sound interesting and dedicated.

Before responding to ‘What do you do?’ ask yourself, ‘What possible interest could this person have in my answer? Could he refer business to me? Buy from me? Hire me? Marry my sister? Become my buddy?’

For example, if you turn to the word smart, you’ll find dozens of synonyms. There are colourful, rich words like ingenious, resourceful, adroit, shrewd, and many more. Run down the list and say each out loud. Which ones fit your personality? Which ones seem right for you? Try each

During my seminars, to help men avoid Gary’s mistake, I ask every male to think of a synonym for pretty, or great. Then I bring up one woman and several men. I ask each to pretend he is her husband. She has just come down the stairs ready to go out to dinner. I ask each to take her hand and deliver his compliment. ‘Darla,’ one says, ‘you look elegant.’

Don’t tell the hosts it was wonderful. Everybody says that. Tell them it was a splendid party, a superb party, an extraordinary party. Hug the hosts and tell them you had a magnificent time, a remarkable time, a glorious time. The first few times you say a word like glorious, it may not roll comfortably off your tongue. Yet you have no trouble with the word wonderful.

Whenever someone mentions a common interest or experience, instead of jumping in with a breathless, ‘Hey, me, too! I do that, too’ or ‘I know all about that,’ let your Conversation Partner enjoy talking about it. Let her go on about the country club before you tell her you’re a member, too.

Here’s the technique I call Kill the Quick ‘Me, Too!’ Whenever people mention an activity or interest you share, let them enjoy discussing their passion. Then, when the time is right, casually mention you share their interest.

Suppose, instead, you had said to her, ‘Jill, YOU will really love this new Indian restaurant. Will you join me there this evening for dinner?’ Phrasing it that way, you’ve already subliminally answered Jill’s questions and she’s more apt to give you a quick yes.

Comm-YOU-nicate when you want a favour Putting YOU first gets a much better response, especially when you’re asking a favour, because it pushes the asker’s pride button. Suppose you want to take a long weekend. You decide to ask your boss if you can take Friday off. Which request do you think he or she is going to react to more positively? ‘Can I take Friday off, Boss?’ Or this one: ‘Boss, can YOU do without me Friday?’

Comm-YOU-nicate your compliments Comm-YOU-nication also enriches your social conversation. Gentlemen, say a lady likes your suit. Which woman gives you warmer feelings? The woman who says, ‘I like your suit.’ Or the one who says, ‘YOU look great in that suit.’ Big Players who make business presentations use Comm-YOU-nication to excellent advantage. Suppose you’re giving a talk and a participant asks a question. He likes to hear you say, ‘That’s a good question.’ However, consider how much better he feels when you tell him, ‘YOU’VE asked a good question.’

Why did this man’s stock shoot high in my ticker one minute and plummet the next? Because his smile, although charming, reflected no special reaction to me. Obviously, he gave the same smile to everybody and, by that, it lost all its specialness. If Strobe Man had given each of us a slightly different smile, he would have appeared sensitive and insightful. (Of course, if his smile had been just a tad bigger for me than for the others, I couldn’t have waited for the formalities to be over to seek him out in the crowded ballroom.)

When meeting groups of people, grace each with a distinct smile. Let your smiles grow out of the beauty Big Players find in each new face. If one person in a group is more important to you than the others, reserve an especially big, flooding smile just for him or her.

ten-foot pole Be on guard. Don’t use any clichés when chatting with Big Winners. Don’t even touch one with a ten-foot pole.

The difference is, these jawsmiths use it all. They use their hands, they use their bodies, and they use specific gestures with heavy impact. They think about the space they’re talking in. They employ many different tones of voice, they invoke various expressions, they vary the speed with which they speak … and they make effective use of silence.

He’d describe being nervous about losing his job as ‘I felt like an elephant dangling over a cliff with his tail tied to a daisy.’ Instead of saying he looked at a pretty woman, he’d say, ‘My eyeballs popped out and dangled by the optic nerve.’

Many speakers use author’s and speaker’s agent Lilly Walters’s face-saver lines from her book, What to Say When You’re Dying on the Platform.16 If you tell a joke and no one laughs, try ‘That joke was designed to get a silent laugh – and it worked.’ If the microphone lets out an agonizing howl, look at it and say, ‘I don’t understand. I brushed my teeth this morning.’ If someone asks you a question you don’t want to answer, ‘Could you save that question until I’m finished – and well on my way home?’ All pros think of holes they might fall into and then memorize great escape lines. You can do the same. Look through books of similes to enrich your day-to-day conversations. Instead of happy as a lark try ‘happy as a lottery winner’ or ‘happy as a baby with its first ice cream cone.’

always in mind. Before throwing out any news, keep your receiver in mind. Then deliver it with a smile, a sigh, or a sob. Not according to how you feel about the news, but how the receiver will take it.

The broken record Whenever someone persists in questioning you on an unwelcome subject, simply repeat your original response. Use precisely the same words in precisely the same tone of voice. Hearing it again usually quiets them down. If your rude interrogator hangs on like a leech, your next repetition never fails to flick them off.

Very simply, never let the word thank you stand naked and alone. Always make it thank you for something. People use the bare exposed thank you so often that people don’t even hear it anymore.

Whenever the occasion warrants more than an unconscious acknowledgment, dress up your thank you with the reason: Thank you for coming. Thank you for being so understanding. Thank you for waiting. Thank you for being such a good customer.

Scramble Therapy is, quite simply, scrambling up your life and participating in an activity you’d never think of indulging in. Just one out of every four weekends, do something totally out of your pattern. Do you usually play tennis on weekends? This weekend, go hiking. Do you usually go hiking? This weekend, take a tennis lesson.

Go to a stamp exhibition. Go to a chess lecture. Go ballooning. Go bird watching. Go to a pool hall. Go kayaking. Go fly a kite! Why? Because it will give you conversational fodder for the rest of your life.

Scramble therapy Once a month, scramble your life. Do something you’d never dream of doing. Participate in a sport, go to an exhibition, hear a lecture on something totally out of your experience. You get 80 per cent of the right lingo and insider questions from

It’s all in the opening question. For example, suppose I’m introduced to someone and the first words out of her mouth are, ‘Oh, you’re a writer. When are you going to write the great American novel?’ Yikes, I know I’m talking with someone who is unfamiliar with my world. 
If, however, my new acquaintance says, ‘Oh you’re a writer. Do you write fiction or nonfiction?’ Bingo! Now I know I’m with a person who knows about my world. Why? Because that is the first question all writers ask each other. I enjoy talking to this inquisitor because I presume she has more insights into the writing world.

When an astronaut meets another astronaut, he asks, ‘What missions have you been on?’ (Never ‘How do you go to the bathroom up there?’) A dentist asks another dentist, ‘Are you in general practice or do you have a specialty?’

Then, here’s the fun part, when you tell them you’re not connected to their field, they’re all the more impressed. ‘What a knowledgeable person!’ they say to themselves.

find out what the hot issues are in their fields. Every industry has burning concerns the outside world knows little about. Ask your informant to bare the industry buzz. Then, to heat the conversation up, push those buttons.
considered ‘an act of God.’ Therefore, you lose. When knowledgeable associates buy products, the vendor is happily reduced to nothing more than a purchasing agent. For very little work, he makes a small profit and is satisfied. A little bit of knowledge goes a long way when you’re buying something. If you have insight into your real estate broker’s bottom line, he’s more apt to give you the better price. If you are facile with the insider words caterers and car salesmen use to pad their profits, if you’re

However, when quizzed afterward on how much they liked each other, partners who believed they were similar liked each other a lot more than the couples who thought themselves to be dissimilar, demonstrating we have a predisposition toward people we believe are just like us. We are most comfortable giving our business and friendship to those we feel share our values and beliefs in life.

Be a copycat Watch people. Look at the way they move. Small movements? Big movements? Fast? Slow? Jerky? Fluid? Old? Young? Classy? Trashy? Pretend the person you are talking to is your dance instructor. Is he a jazzy mover? Is she a balletic mover? Watch his or her body, then imitate the style of movement. That makes your Conversation Partner subliminally real comfy with you.

When you want to give someone the subliminal feeling you’re just alike, use their words, not yours. Suppose you are selling a car to a young mother who tells you she is concerned about safety because she has a young toddler.

You are first chatting with a lawyer who tells you her profession is often maligned. When it comes your turn to speak, say profession too. If you say job, it puts a subconscious barrier between you. Next you meet a construction worker who starts talking about his job.

What are empathizers? Empathizers are simple, short, supportive statements. Unlike ‘uh huh,’ they are complete sentences such as ‘I can appreciate you decided to do that,’ or ‘That really is exciting.’ Empathizers can be one-sentence positive critiques like ‘Yes, that was the honorable thing to do’ or ‘It’s charming you felt that way.’ When you respond with complete sentences instead of the usual grunts, not only do you come across as more articulate, your listener feels that you really understand.

What part of their anatomy are your associates talking though? Their eyes? Their ears? Their gut? For visual people, use visual empathizers to make them think you see the world the way they do. For auditory folks, use auditory empathizers to make them think you hear them loud and clear. For kinesthetic types, use kinesthetic empathizers to make
Technique 49: The premature we Create the sensation of intimacy with someone even if you’ve met just moments before. Scramble the signals in their psyche by skipping conversational levels one and two, and cutting right to

We’re more apt to trust someone who says nice things about us when we aren’t listening than someone who flatters us to our face.

Don’t directly compliment Jane. Go to her close associate Diane Doe and say, ‘You know, Jane is a very dynamic woman. She said something so brilliant in the meeting the other day. Someday she’ll be running this company.’ I place ten-to-one odds your comment will

when there’s bad news. (It’s called gossip.) Instead, become a carrier of good news and kudos. Whenever you hear something complimentary about someone, fly to them with the compliment. Your fans may not posthumously stuff you and put you on display in a museum like Stumpy Joe. But everyone loves the Carrier Pigeon of kind thoughts.

Rule 1: Deliver your Killer Compliment to the recipient in private. If you are standing with a group of four or five people and you praise one woman for being fit, every other woman feels like a barrel of lard. If you tell one man he has wonderful carriage, every other feels like a hunchback. You also make the blushing

Rule 2: Make your Killer Compliment credible. For example, I’m tone-deaf. If I’m forced to sing even a simple song like ‘Happy Birthday,’ I sound like a sick pig. If anyone in earshot were foolish enough to tell me they liked my voice, I’d know it was hogwash. Rule 3: Confer only one Killer Compliment per half year on each recipient. Otherwise you come across as insincere, grovelling, obsequious, pandering, and a thoroughly

Your colleague asks, ‘How was your vacation in Hawaii?’ You answer, ‘Oh, you remembered I went to Hawaii! It was great, thanks.’ Your boss asks, ‘Are you over your cold now?’ You answer, ‘I appreciate your concern. I feel much better now.’ Whenever someone shines a little sunshine on your life in the form of a compliment or concerned question,

Ask the important people in your life what they would like engraved on their tombstone. Chisel it into your memory but don’t mention it again. Then, when the moment is right to say ‘I appreciate you’ or ‘I love you,’ fill the blanks with the very words they gave you weeks earlier.

To get your personality across on the phone, you must translate your emotions into sound. In fact, you have to exaggerate the sound because studies have shown people lose 30 per cent of the energy level in their voices on the phone. Say you meet an important new

punctuate your phone conversations with ‘Uh huh’ or ‘I hear you.’ So your listener knows you’re nodding in approval, verbalize ‘I see,’ ‘Oh that’s great,’ ‘No kidding,’ ‘Interesting,’ and ‘Tell me more!’ She didn’t see you hitting your head in surprise? Better say ‘What a surprise!’

Saying a person’s name too often in face-to-face conversation sounds manipulative. However, on the phone the effect is dramatically different.

Don’t answer the phone with an ‘I’m just sooo happy all the time’ attitude. Answer warmly, crisply, professionally. Then, after you hear who is calling, let a huge smile of happiness engulf your entire face and spill over into your voice. You make your caller feel as though your giant warm fuzzy smile is reserved for him or her.

When you hear a phone in the background, stop speaking – in midsentence if necessary – and say ‘I hear your other line’ (or your dog barking, your baby crying, your spouse calling you).

Biggies get there early to start hitting their marks as each arrives. VIPS frequently come early to get their business done before party regulars who ‘hate to be the first one there’ start arriving. They are never embarrassed to arrive early.

Each pauses momentarily and looks around before swooping into decisive action. Movie directors love shots of THE DOORWAY where

Think again, thespians. It’s cultivated. Politicians don’t just slink unnoticed into a roomful of people. Politicians make The Entrance. With one simple technique, you too can make great entrances. I call it Rubberneck the Room. Before entering, stop dramatically in the doorway and survey the scene s-l-o-w-l-y with your eyes. It is significant that, while you’re standing in the doorway, you’re not thinking, ‘Look at me.’ The reason you’re Rubbernecking the Room is not to show off. It is so you can diagnose the situation you’re walking into. Take note of the lighting, the bar, and most important, the faces. Listen to the music, the buzz of the crowd, the clinking of glasses. See who is talking to whom. While rubbernecking, you’ll also be using Be the Chooser, Not the Choosee, the next technique, which helps you select your first, second, and maybe third target. Now,

‘Hmm, any interesting strangers I should meet?’ Politicians don’t wait for others to approach them. If the party host or their campaign manager has not supplied a ‘must meet’ list, they choose their targets while Rubbernecking the Room. As their keen eyes scan the crowd, they’re asking themselves ‘Who would I most enjoy talking

When you seek people’s special qualities by exploring their faces, you will find them. If you want to walk out of any gathering with your life enhanced, spend time with people you choose, not just those who choose you. Be choosey in who you pick. But don’t wait to be the choosee.

Controlled studies show that party goers are more comfortable approaching people who stand with an open body – arms uncrossed and hanging at their sides, legs slightly separated, a slight smile on their faces. Any object between you and the crowd is a subliminal cutoff – even your purse. More people approach a woman who sports a shoulder bag than one squeezing a handbag. The shoulder bag hangs behind her back, thus leaving the path to talk to her open. Give


They also signify acceptance. When you are listening to a business colleague to whom you want to signal acceptance, make sure your wrists and palms are up. Even if you’re resting your head on your chin, turn your wrists forward. Whenever you are chatting with anyone, give yourself a constant hand check.

Tracking Like an air-traffic controller, track the tiniest details of your Conversation Partners’ lives. Refer to them in your conversation like a major news story. It creates a powerful sense of intimacy. When you envoke the last major or minor event in anyone’s life, it confirms the deep conviction that he or she is an old-style hero around whom the world revolves. And people love you for recognizing their stardom.

Right after you’ve talked to someone at a party, take out your pen. On the back of his or her business card write notes to remind you of the conversation:

At that instant, I realized Big Boys and Girls see no bloopers, hear no bloopers. They never say ‘Butterfingers.’ Or ‘Whoops.’ Or even ‘Uh-oh.’ They ignore their colleagues’ boners. They simply don’t notice their comrades’ minor spills, slips, fumbles and blunders. Thus, the technique See No Bloopers, Hear No Bloopers was born.

Whenever someone’s story is aborted, let the interruption play itself out. Give everyone time to dote on the little darling, give their dinner order, or pick up the jagged pieces of china. Then, when the group reassembles, simply say to the person who suffered story-interruptus, ‘Now please get back to your story.’ Or better yet, remember where they were and then ask, ‘So what happened after the … (and fill in the last few


(and WIIFY) Whenever you suggest a meeting or ask a favour, divulge the respective benefits. Reveal what’s in it for you and what’s in it for the other person – even if it’s zip. If any hidden agenda comes up later, you get labelled a sly fox.

Whenever you make a mistake, make sure your victim benefits. It’s not enough to correct your error. Ask yourself, ‘What could I do for this suffering soul so he or she will be delighted I made the flub?’ Then do it, fast! In that way, your goof will become your gain.

Dear (name of supervisor), I know how important customer service is to an organization such as yours. This letter is to commend (name of employee). He/She is an example of an (employee title) who gives exceptional customer service. (Name of store or business) continues to have my business thanks in great part to the service given by (name of employee). Gratefully, (signature)

Be the first to applaud or publicly commend the man or woman you agree with.

They had to appreciate the idea that the values of the world we inhabit and the people we surround ourselves with have a profound effect on who we are. – Outliers

One last thing about the glymphatic system: it seems to work better when you sleep on your side. Stony Brook University researchers Hedok Lee and colleagues studying rodents found that the glymphatic system worked more efficiently when the rodent was placed on its side. One behavioral change you can implement right now that could reduce your risk of developing Alzheimerâ€™s disease is to simply sleep on your side.- The Sleep Solution 

Their sleep and brain biochemistry were measured. Did the rats sleep? Absolutely. Did they both sleep the same? No. The rats in the dirty cage showed more signs of hyperarousal and did not sleep as well as the rats in the clean cage. - The Sleep Solution

As of now, spend a minimum of one hour a day doing whatever you are waiting to do

Spend at least one hour a day doing whatever you simply love to do—what you deeply feel you need to do, in your heart—in spite of the daily duties that seem to constrain you.

Most postponements are excuses for a lack of creative discipline.

Every moment waited is a moment wasted, and each wasted moment degrades your clarity of purpose.

A man must love his father and yet be free of his father's expectations and criticisms in order to be a free man.

He shouldn't pretend he is more enlightened than he is—nor should he stop short of his actual edge. The more a man is playing his real edge, the more valuable he is as good company for other men, the more he can be trusted to be authentic and fully present. Where a man's edge is located is less important than whether he is actually living his edge in truth, rather than being lazy or deluded.

If you were absolutely fearless, would you be earning a living in exactly the same way as you are now? Your edge is where you stop short, or where you compromise your fullest gift, and, instead, cater to your fears.

Honor your edge. Honor your choices. Be honest with yourself about them. Be honest with your friends about them. A fearful man who knows he is fearful is far more trustable than a fearful man who isn't aware of his fear. And a fearful man who still leans into his fear, living at his edge and putting his gift out from there, is more trustworthy and more inspirational than a fearful man who hangs back in the comfort zone, unwilling to even experience his fear on a day to day level.

Spend time with people who inspire you and reflect the source to you. Meditate, contemplate, or pray daily so that you steep yourself in the source.

Even if you find yourself in some trivial moment, watching TV or cleaning up a mess in the kitchen, feel the truth of who you are. Feel the boundless cognizance in which each instant seems and vanishes.

Always trust your own wisdom

Good friends should not tolerate mediocrity in one another.

You may wish to go on a retreat in a remote area and be by yourself. Whatever it is you decide to do, consciously keep yourself open and available to receiving a vision of what is next. It will come.

And then, one day, a few years later, it is finished. This layer has dissolved. And the cycle begins again, and again, until you have penetrated all the layers into your deepest purpose. Then, you act fully, until that purpose, too, is dissolved in the bliss of the love that you are.



